CAVE SPRINGS, ARKANSAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES

2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-27-2024

 

Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com

ADOPTING ORDINANCE

 

ORDINANCE NO. 2022-04

   CITY OF CAVE SPRINGS, BENTON COUNTY, ARKANSAS AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
AND ENACTING A NEW    MUNICIPAL CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF CAVE
SPRINGS, ARKANSAS, AND ESTABLISHING THE SAME; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL
OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREIN EXPRESSLY
PROVIDED; PROVIDING FOR THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF SUCH CODE AND A PENALTY
FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH
CODE; AND PROVIDING FOR THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE; AND
DECLARING AN EMERGENCY    AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES.

   WHEREAS, the City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, an Arkansas municipal
corporation, has the authority to make and publish, from time to time,
ordinances, not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Arkansas,
deemed necessary to provide for the safety, preserve the health, promote
the prosperity, and improve the morals, order, comfort, and convenience
of the City and its inhabitants; and

   WHEREAS, in connection with the foregoing the Cave Springs City
Council has, over the years, enacted ordinances for the City, not
inconsistent with the laws of Arkansas, for carrying into effect and
discharging the powers and duties conferred on it by law; and

   WHEREAS, the Cave Springs City Council has determined that it is in
the best interest of the City and its citizens to codify its ordinances
into a municipal code pursuant to Ark. Code. Ann. § 14-55-701 as a new
and original comprehensive ordinance which shall supersede all other
municipal codes and general and permanent ordinances passed by the City
Council on or before and to the extent provided herein.

   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ENACTED AND ORDAINED, by the City Council of the
City of Cave Springs, as follows:

   Section 1.   The Code of the General Ordinances of the City of Cave
Springs, Arkansas is hereby adopted and enacted as the "Cave Springs
Municipal Code”. Such Code shall be treated and considered as a new and
original comprehensive ordinance which shall supersede all other general
and permanent ordinances passed by the City Council on or before and to
the extent provided in Section 2 hereof.

   Section 2.   All provisions of such Code shall be in full force and
effect from and after the 25th day of January 2022. All ordinances of a
general and permanent nature not included in such Code are hereby
repealed from and after the 25th day of January 2022, except as herein
provided. No resolution of the City, not specifically mentioned herein,
is hereby repealed.

   Section 3.   The repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not
affect any of the following:

   (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or
forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing
before the effective date of such Code;

   (2)   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment ofmoney for
the City or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any
evidence of the City's indebtedness;

   (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the City;

   (4)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in
the City;

   (5)   Any appropriation ordinance or rate ordinance;

   (6)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective only for a
stated or limited time;

   (7)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing
taxes therefor; and

   (8)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat.

   Section 4.   Whenever in such Code an act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in
such Code the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act
is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation of any such provision of such Code shall be
punishable as provided by § 10.99 of such Code.

   Section 5.   Any and all additions and amendments to such Code, when
passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the City Council to
make the same a part thereof shall be deemed to be incorporated in such
Code so that reference to the Cave Springs Municipal Code shall be
understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.

   Section 6.   In case of the amendment of any section of such Code for
which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in §
10.99 of such Code shall apply to the Section as amended; or in case
such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the
aforementioned general penalty, is provided in another section in the
same chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be
held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is
specifically repealed therein.

   Section 7.   Three copies of such Code have been, kept on file prior
to the adoption of this Ordinance in the office of the City
Recorder-Treasurer as required by A.C. § 14-55-701. Three copies of such
Code shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer as
required by A.C. § 14-55-702 following the adoption of this Ordinance.
It shall be the express duty of the City Clerk-Treasurer, or someone
authorized by the City Clerk-Treasurer to insert in their designated
places all amendments or ordinances which indicate the intention of the
City Council to make the same a part of such Code when the same have
been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from such Code
all provisions which may be from time to time repealed by the City
Council. These copies of such Code shall be available for all persons
desiring to examine the same.

   Section 8.   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or, amend
by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or to
insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with
such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City
of Cave Springs, Arkansas, to be misinterpreted thereby. Any person
violating this section shall be punished as provided in Section 4 of
this ordinance.

   Section 9.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict
herewith are, to the extent ofsuch conflict, hereby repealed.

   Section 10.   Nothing in this Ordinance or the Cave Springs Municipal
Code shall be construed to confer a property right or an employment
contract unless such property right or employment contract is expressly,
and specifically, authorized by the Cave Springs City Council.

   Section 11.   It is hereby found that many of the ordinances of the
City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, are not easily accessible to citizens
and municipal officials and thereby has rendered it difficult for many
persons to determine the actual laws in effect; and that the City has
made unusual efforts to have the laws of the City of Cave Springs
adopted and published. Therefore, an emergency is hereby declared to
exist and this ordinance being necessary for the immediate preservations
of the public peace, health and safety shall be in full force and effect
from and after its passage and approval.

      PASSED AND APPROVED this 24th day of January, 2022.

                                       APP ROVED:

                                       /s/ Randall J. Noblett

                                       Randall J. Noblett, Mayor

(SEAL)

ATTEST:

/s/ Kimberly Hutcheson

Kimberly Hutcheson, City Recorder-Treasurer

 

TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS

   Chapter

      10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS

      11.   CITY STANDARDS

CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section

   10.01   Title of code

   10.02   Interpretation

   10.03   Application to future ordinances

   10.04   Captions

   10.05   Definitions

   10.06   Rules of interpretation

   10.07   Severability

   10.08   Reference to other sections

   10.09   Reference to offices

   10.10   Errors and omissions

   10.11   Official time

   10.12   Reasonable time

   10.13   Ordinances repealed

   10.14   Ordinances unaffected

   10.15   Effective date of ordinances

   10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance

   10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code

   10.18   Section histories; statutory references

 

   10.99   General penalty

§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.

   This codification of ordinances by, and for, the City of Cave Springs
shall be designated as the Code of Cave Springs, and may be so cited.

§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.

   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern
the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.

§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.

   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending, or supplementing, this
code, unless otherwise specifically provided.

§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.

   Headings, and captions, used in this code, other than the title,
chapter, and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only,
and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.

§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.

   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
or ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases
having a peculiar, and appropriate, meaning in law shall be understood
according to their technical import.

   (B)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this code, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or
requires, a different meaning.

      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Cave
Springs, Arkansas.

      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code,
as modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles,
chapters, or sections.

      COUNTY. Benton County, Arkansas.

      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.

      MONTH. A calendar month.

      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR and
SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.

      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer,
office, employee, commission, or department of this municipality, unless
the context clearly requires otherwise.

      PERSON. Extends to, and includes, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used
in any clause prescribing, and imposing, a penalty, the terms PERSON or
WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the
partners, or members, thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers, or agents, thereof.

      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before, or next after, respectively.

      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.

      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot
write.

      STATE. The State of Arkansas.

      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis, and a capitalized heading in the body
of the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.

      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether
by printing or otherwise.

      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.

§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.

   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by
the following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to
the intent of the legislative body, or of the context of the same
ordinance:

   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other, as if
written “and/or”, if the sense requires it;

   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, or ordinance, requires an
act to be done which, by law, an agent, or deputy as well, may do as the
principal, such requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of
such act by an authorized agent, or deputy;

   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the
masculine gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter
genders; words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in
the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the present
tense shall include the future, if applicable; and

   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated, unless expressly so
limited.

§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.

   If any provision of this code as now, or later, amended, or its
application to any person, or circumstance, is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect other provisions that can be given effect
without the invalid provision, or application.

§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.

   Whenever, in one section, reference is made to another section
hereof, such reference shall extend, and apply, to the section referred
to as subsequently amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless
the subject matter is changed, or materially altered, by the amendment,
or revision.

§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.

   Reference to a public office, or officer, shall be deemed to apply to
any office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the
powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective
of any transfer of functions, or change in the official title of the
functionary.

§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.

   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected; the use of a word, or words, to
which no meaning can be attached; or the use of a word, or words, when
another word, or words, was clearly intended to express such intent,
such spelling shall be corrected, and such word, or words, supplied,
omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest intention, and
the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct words
were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made, or permitted, if any question exists regarding the nature, or
extent, of such error.

§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.

   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal
laws, shall be the official time within this municipality for the
transaction of all municipal business.

§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.

   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time, or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE
TIME OR NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a
prompt performance of such act, or the giving of such notice.

   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If
the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.

§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.

   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of
the provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein
enumerated and embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects
treated by this code shall be deemed repealed from, and after, the
effective date of this code.

§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.

   All ordinances of a temporary, or special, nature, and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall
remain in full force, and effect, unless herein repealed expressly, or
by necessary implication.

§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.

   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from, and after, the due publication thereof, unless
otherwise expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall
take effect from their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.

§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.

   (A)   Whenever any ordinance, or part of an ordinance, shall be
repealed, or modified, by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance, or part
of an ordinance, thus repealed, or modified, shall continue in force
until the due publication of the ordinance repealing, or modifying, it
when publication is required to give effect thereto, unless otherwise
expressly provided.

   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance
previous to its repeal shall, in any way, be affected, released, or
discharged, but may be prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if
the ordinance had continued in force, unless it is otherwise expressly
provided.

   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or
provision shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to
revive the former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is
expressly provided.

§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.

   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing
chapter, or section, of this code, the chapter, or section, shall be
specifically repealed, and a new chapter, or section, containing the
desired amendment, substituted in its place.

   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter, or section, shall indicate, with reference to the
arrangement of this code, the proper number of such chapter, or section.
In addition to such indication thereof, as may appear in the text of the
proposed ordinance, a caption, or title, shall be shown in concise form
above the ordinance.

§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.

   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number, and
passage date, of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if
any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord.
10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)

   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this
indicates that the text of the section reads substantially the same as
the statute. Example: (A.C. § 14-55-504) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980;
Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)

      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should
refer to that statute for further information. Example:

   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.

      This municipality shall make available to any person for
inspection or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by
state law.

   Statutory reference:

      Inspection of public records, see A.C. §§ 25-19-101 et seq.

§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.

   (A)   General penalty established. If an ordinance, or code, does not
specifically provide for the penalty for violating that ordinance, or
code, then this section, along with the below-mentioned fines, will
encompass those violations. This section is not designated to supersede
any ordinance, or code, in which penalties have already been
established. Any conflict between the penalties stated below, and any
other ordinance, or code, violations will be resolved by deference to
the more specific ordinance, or code, violation.

   (B)   Maximum penalties permitted.

      (1)   The city shall not inflict any fine, or penalty, by
ordinance or otherwise, to a greater sum than $1,000 for any one
specified offense, or violation, of a bylaw or ordinance, or double that
sum for each repetition of such offense, or violation.

      (2)   If a thing prohibited, or rendered unlawful, is, in its
nature, continuous in respect to time, the fine, or penalty, for
allowing the continuance thereof, in violation of the bylaw or
ordinance, shall not exceed $500 for each day that it may be unlawfully
continued.

      (3)   If any bylaw, or ordinance, provides for any greater fine,
penalty, or forfeiture than is provided in this section, it shall, and
may be, lawful, in any suit or prosecution, for the recovery thereof, to
reduce it to such amount as shall be deemed reasonable and proper, and
to permit a recovery, or render a judgment, for such amount as
authorized.

(A.C. § 14-55-504)

CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS

Section

   11.01   Designated places for posting of ordinances

   11.02   Classification of city

§ 11.01 DESIGNATED PLACES FOR POSTING OF ORDINANCES.

   (A)   Designation of public places. The following places, which are
hereby found to be five of the most public places in the municipality,
are hereby designated for the posting of notice of the adoption of
ordinances of the municipality:

  ---------- ----------
  Facility   Location
  ---------- ----------

Facility

Location

Cave Springs City Hall

134 N. Main, Cave Springs, Arkansas 72718

Cave Springs City Park*

Johnson Avenue, Cave Springs, Arkansas 72718

Cave Springs Coffee Co.

137 N. Main, Cave Springs, Arkansas 72718

Cave Springs Community Building

117 S. Main, Cave Springs, Arkansas 72718

Cave Springs Fire Department

128 E. Main, Cave Springs, Arkansas 72718

Nelson’s Hardware

115 S. Main, Cave Springs, Arkansas 72718

Notes to Table:

*   Alternate site

 

   (B)   Notice by posting. Notice of the adoption of ordinances of the
municipality shall be effected by the posting of ordinances at the
locations set forth in division (A) above, and any other site deemed
necessary.

(Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-9-2018)

§ 11.02 CLASSIFICATION OF CITY.

   The city shall operate as a city of the second class under the laws
of the state.

(Prior Code, § 2.04.01)

Statutory reference:

   Similar provisions, see A.C. § 14-37-103

TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION

   Chapter

      30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL

      31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS

      32.   ORGANIZATIONS

      33.   COURTS

      34.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT

      35.   FINANCES AND TAXATION

      36.   GENERAL CITY POLICIES

CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL

Section

City Council

   30.01   Procedural rules

   30.02   City Council administration

   30.03   Regular meetings

   30.04   Special meetings

   30.05   Public hearings, meetings, work sessions

   30.06   Public notification; meeting, committee meetings

   30.07   Agenda

   30.08   Public comment; question; response procedure

CITY COUNCIL

§ 30.01 PROCEDURAL RULES.

   (A)   In the absence of specific rules of procedure, as set out in
this procedural subchapter, the rules of procedure for transacting
business at regular and special sessions of the City Council shall be
the "Procedural Rules for Municipal Officials" published by the Arkansas
Municipal League in 1987 and as amended, except the Clerk shall commence
a roll call vote with a different member of the City Council on a
rotating basis or by motion of a City Council member, seconded and
passed by a majority vote of the Council.

   (B)   The officers of the City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, shall
consist of one Mayor with a term of four years, one Clerk-Treasurer with
a term of four years, and six City Council members representing the
entire city, but elected from three wards of the city, two City Council
Members per ward who are elected at large. Each City Council member must
reside in the ward for the position they seek, and each shall have a
term of two years. All officers shall be qualified electors residing
with the limits of the municipal corporation.

(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord.
2024-02, passed 2-27-2024)

§ 30.02 CITY COUNCIL ADMINISTRATION.

   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council. The
presiding officer may vote only as allowed by state law. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall serve as secretariat of the City Council. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall perform all administrative and record-keeping
duties of the Council in accordance with Arkansas law. An electronic
recording device will be used to record the meeting as required by
Arkansas law. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make a true and correct record
of all proceedings and shall post and file all ordinances and
resolutions as required by law.

   (B)   In the absence of the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer from any
meeting of the Council, the Council shall have the power to appoint any
one of their number to perform the duties of Mayor or any appropriate
person to perform the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer for the purposes of
conducting the meeting.

(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord.
2024-02, passed 2-27-2024)

§ 30.03 REGULAR MEETINGS.

   (A)   The regular meeting of the Cave Springs City Council will be
held on the fourth Tuesday of each month at 6:30 p.m. in the American
Legion Building located at 168 Glenwood Ave., Cave Springs, Arkansas,
unless otherwise announced. In the case that the American Legion
Building is not available for a particular meeting or period of
meetings, or in the case of a change of date or time of the regular
meeting, the date, time and location of the particular meeting(s) shall
be announced at a regular City Council meeting, announced on city social
media sites or the city website or otherwise distributed and advertised
in order to reasonably inform the public of the change of location. When
a regular meeting of the Council falls on a recognized city holiday, the
meeting shall be held at the same time and place on the next day for
which city government offices are open for business, or at such time and
place as agreed to by the City Council with such notice to the public
being provided as set forth herein.

   (B)   The place of meeting may be changed for a particular meeting
during the course thereof by a majority vote of the Council as required
by law. The Council may, by a two-thirds vote of the membership, suspend
or reschedule to other times any future regularly scheduled meeting or
meetings. Council members, the Mayor and the Clerk-Treasurer shall
attend all meetings of the City Council.

(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord.
2024-02, passed 2-27-2024)

§ 30.04 SPECIAL MEETINGS.

   (A)   The Mayor or three or more City Council members may call
special meetings upon at least two hours notice in the event of an
emergency or exigent circumstance, but in such cases where there is no
emergency or exigent circumstances, at least 24 hours notice of the
special meeting shall be provided. The notice of a special meeting shall
specify the specific agenda for the special meeting as required by law
as well as the date, time, and designated location of the special
meeting. Only such business as was included in the special meeting
notice may be considered at the special meeting.

   (B)   Notice of a special meeting given at any regular or special
meeting of the City Council shall constitute due notice to the City
Council members. The Clerk-Treasurer, or designee, shall be responsible
for giving a timely notice to absent members, as well as giving public
notice, containing the information specified in division (A) of this
section.

   (C)   Notice of a special meeting of the City Council called by the
Mayor at other than a meeting of the City Council shall be accomplished
by the Mayor notifying the Clerk-Treasurer, in writing, who shall then
be responsible for notifying each City Council member individually, in
writing or verbally, and give due public notice, containing information
specified in division (A) of this section. In the absence of the
Clerk-Treasurer, the Mayor or designee shall prepare written notice,
containing information specified in division (A) of this section and the
Mayor, or designee, shall be responsible for notifying the Clerk-
Treasurer and each City Council member individually, either in writing
or verbally, and give due public notice containing the information
specified in division (A) of this section.

   (D)   Notice of a special meeting of the City Council called by three
or more City Council members shall be accomplished by one City Council
member of the group notifying the Mayor verbally or in writing. In
addition to the information specified in division (A), the notice shall
also include the name of each City Council member making up the group
calling the meeting. The Mayor shall notify the Clerk- Treasurer
verbally or in writing of the request for a special meeting. The
Clerk-Treasurer, or designee, shall be responsible for notifying each
Council member not in the majority calling the special meeting, in
writing or verbally, and giving due public notice.

   (E)   In order to provide city officials and the general public with
the best opportunity to make arrangements to be present, if desired, it
is the intent of this section that notice of a call for a special
meeting shall be given as far in advance as possible consistent with the
nature and immediacy of the purpose of the special meeting. The minimum
of two hours notice shall be used only under extreme and unusual
circumstances. Whenever possible, notice of any special meeting shall be
provided on the city social media sites and the city website.

   (F)   All special meetings of the City Council or any of its
committees shall be in conformance with the Arkansas Freedom of
Information Act and all other state laws.

(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord.
2024-02, passed 2-27-2024)

§ 30.05 PUBLIC HEARINGS, MEETINGS, WORK SESSIONS.

   (A)   The Mayor or three or more members of the City Council, may
call a public hearing, meeting and/or work session upon at least 24
hours notice. The notice of a public hearing shall specify the
subject(s), date, time, and designated location of the public hearing or
work session. Public hearings and/or work sessions shall be used for a
means of information gathering or the hearing of evidence on a
particular subject(s) or action(s) and no conclusions or votes mandating
the City Council to act or take action will be taken or recognized by
the City Council at such hearings, meetings or sessions. The public is
invited to attend work sessions of the City Council, but time for public
comment will not be provided. Whenever possible or necessary, an agenda
shall be provided for each work session, but no minutes of any work
session shall be taken.

   (B)   The Cave Springs City Council shall hold a regular work session
once a month for the purposes of initial review of prior month
financials and department reports, discussion of new business,
discussion of tabled items from previous meetings, discussion of any
city business, and for the content and arrangement of the agenda for the
upcoming regular City Council meeting. The regular work session shall be
held on the second Tuesday of every month at 6:30 p.m. at the Cave
Springs American Legion Building or at such location agreed to by the
City Council members. Other than the administrative task of the
formulation of the agenda, no conclusions or votes mandating the City
Council to act or take action will be taken or recognized by the City
Council at the regular work session.

   (C)   Notice of a public hearing and/or work session called by the
Mayor at other than the regular meeting of the City Council shall be
accomplished by the Mayor notifying the Clerk-Treasurer in writing or
verbally. The Clerk-Treasurer, or designee, shall be responsible for
notifying each City Council member individually, in writing or verbally,
and give due public notice, containing information specified in § 30.04
herein. In the absence of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Mayor or designee
shall prepare written notice, containing information specified in
division (A) of this section and the Mayor, or designee, shall be
responsible for notifying the Clerk-Treasurer and each City Council
member individually, either in writing or verbally, and give due public
notice containing the information specified in division (A) of this
section.

   (D)   Notice of a public hearing and/or work session of the City
Council called by any two Council members shall be accomplished by one
member of the calling group to notify the Mayor in writing or verbally.
In addition to the information specified in division (A), the notice
shall also include the name of each City Council member making up the
called hearing or meeting. The Mayor shall be responsible for notifying
the City Clerk-Treasurer and each City Council member not in the calling
group of the hearing, meeting or session, in writing or verbally, and
giving due public notice as specified in § 30.04 of this subchapter.

   (E)   lt is intent of this section that notice of a call for a public
hearing, city meeting and/or work session shall be given as far in
advance as possible consistent with the nature and immediacy of the
purpose of the hearing, meeting or session. The minimum of 24 hours
notice shall be given only under unusual circumstances.

   (F)   All public hearings, city meetings and/or work sessions called
by the Mayor, City Council or any of its committees shall be in
conformance with the Arkansas Freedom of Information Act and all other
state laws.

(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord.
2024-02, passed 2-27-2024)

§ 30.06 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION; MEETING, COMMITTEE MEETINGS.

   In addition to all other duties required by law, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall be responsible for giving public notification required by Arkansas
Freedom of Information Act of regular and special meetings of the City
Council and committees thereof. Committee Chairpersons shall strive to
give the Clerk-Treasurer 48 hours notice, in writing, of meetings of
their committees in order to give the Clerk-Treasurer time to notify all
City Council members, the Mayor and the public. In the absence of the
Clerk-Treasurer, the Mayor or designee, shall be responsible for
notifying the Clerk-Treasurer, all City Council members and the public.

(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord.
2024-02, passed 2-27-2024)

§ 30.07 AGENDA.

   (A)   The agenda for all regular City Council meetings shall be
determined by the City Council members at the monthly regular work
session, and by the Mayor, City Attorney and City Engineer over the
course of the subsequent time prior to the City Council meeting. The
Mayor or any City Council member who wishes to have an item placed on
the agenda for the regular City Council meeting shall be prepared to
offer the proposed agenda item for consideration at the regular work
session, or in cases of items that. The City Council members shall
decide the content and arrangement of the agenda for each regular City
Council meeting. The name of the sponsor of each agenda item may be
indicated on the final agenda. At the regular City Council meeting, the
agenda may be amended or rearranged by a majority vote of the City
Council.

   (B)   The agenda for the regular City Council meeting shall contain
the following items:

      (1)   Call to order;

      (2)   Approval of the regular City Council agenda;

      (3)   City Attorney's reports;

      (4)   Presentation of the minutes of the prior regular City
Council meeting;

      (5)   Presentation of the city financial reports;

      (6)   Presentation of the water and sewer financial reports;

      (7)   Presentation of the Mayor's report;

      (8)   Presentation of the departmental reports - Planning
Commission, Water and Sewer Departments, Public Works, Police Department
and the Fire Department;

      (9)   Review of public comments from the previous regular City
Council meeting;

      (10)   Public comments;

      (11)   Presentation of veto(s) (if any);

      (12)   Old business; and

      (13)   New business.

   (C)   Following the regular work session, the City Attorney shall
assist in the preparation of the agenda and shall prepare or approve all
resolutions and ordinances contained in the agenda as requested and
required. The City Attorney shall submit all resolutions and ordinances,
or indicate approval of any resolutions or ordinances not prepared by
the City Attorney, by the end of business on the Friday prior to the
regular City Council meeting. The Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer, or their
designees, shall submit all reports and information required for the
agenda to the Clerk-Treasurer, or designee, prior to noon (12:00 p.m.)
on the Friday before the regular City Council meeting. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall submit all financials required for the agenda to
the Mayor by the Monday prior to the regular City Council meeting. The
Mayor or the Clerk-Treasurer, or designee, will see that the agenda is
distributed to the City Council members and other interested citizens or
parties. A packet containing items that have been placed on the agenda
shall be electronically delivered to the City Council members no later
than the Friday prior to the regular City Council meeting. The agenda
shall be prominently published to the city's website and any other
selected public places no later than the Friday prior to the regularly
scheduled meeting.

(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord.
2023-02, passed 2-14-2023; Ord. 2024-04, passed 2-27-2024)

§ 30.08 PUBLIC COMMENT; QUESTION; RESPONSE PROCEDURE.

   (A)   Public questions that are posed or delivered at the regular
City Council meeting, and not answered at that meeting, shall be
documented by the Clerk-Treasurer and forwarded to the Mayor and City
Council members for inclusion on the agenda and review prior to the next
City Council work session.

   (B)   At the regular work session, the following process should be
followed:

      (1)   The City Attorney shall address any questions of law from
City Council members or the Mayor and explain or offer any other
necessary recommendations.

      (2)   Other questions will be discussed by the City Council at the
work session with one of two possible outcomes at the regular work
session:

         (a)   No current response with reason for no response:

            1.   Response not appropriate due to litigation or
prohibition by law or policy; or

            2.   That further research needed, with the assigned of the
question to the appropriate person for further work.

         (b)   Discussion of the question, with the Clerk-Treasurer
documenting the response, which will be included in the next month's
City Council meeting packet.

   (C)   The following month's agenda should include public
questions/comments and responses thereto and placed prior to "Public
Comments" section.

   (D)   Each question and the response shall be read by the Mayor, or
the City Attorney if a question of law has been presented, during the
City Council meeting with discussion by the City Council if desired.

   (E)   All unresolved items will continue to be included on each
month's work session agenda until resolved.

(Ord. 2020-09, passed 3-23-2020; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022; Ord.
2024-02, passed 2-27-2024)

CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS

Section

   31.01   City Attorney

   31.02   City Clerk-Treasurer

   31.03   Alderman, Alderwoman districting

   31.04   Building Official

   31.05   Code Enforcement Officer

§ 31.01 CITY ATTORNEY.

   (A)   The office of City Attorney is hereby established as a position
which is appointed by the City Council. The appointment shall be
approved by a resolution approved by a majority of the City Council.

   (B)   The duties, and responsibilities, of the City Attorney shall be
to:

      (1)   Draft ordinances, resolutions, contracts, leases,
conveyances, and such other instruments of writing, as may be required
by the business of the city;

      (2)   Provide written opinions upon a subject requiring a legal
opinion when requested, and properly approved, by the city;

      (3)   Provide legal advice regarding matters involving the city to
elected officials, department heads, and authorized city employees;

      (4)   Attend meetings of the City Council, and other city meetings
as requested, and properly approved;

      (5)   Represent the city in civil litigation, and to recommend,
and coordinate, all outside legal counsel work on behalf of the city,
unless the City Attorney has a conflict;

      (6)   Prosecute all civil, or criminal, cases involving the
violation of city ordinances before the district court, and to prosecute
all civil, or misdemeanor, criminal cases involving violations of state
laws within the corporate limits of the city before the district,
juvenile, or circuit courts, and to prosecute, or defend, all appeals of
any such cases; and

      (7)   Perform such duties as required by A.C. § 14-42-112,
required by state law, or as requested by the City Council.

   (C)   The City Attorney shall report to the City Council on a regular
basis, and shall endeavor to keep the City Council apprised of all
matters of a legal nature.

(Ord. 2017-22, passed 5-9-2017)

§ 31.02 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.

   (A)   Office. The office of City Clerk-Treasurer is hereby created.
The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the qualified voters of the
city, and shall serve a four-year term in accordance with the laws of
the state.

(Prior Code, § 2.12.01)

   (B)   Compensation. The salary of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be the
current salary of the City Recorder, as established by the City Council.
The City Council may amend the salary of the City Clerk-Treasurer in the
annual budget ordinance for the city, subject to the restrictions of
governing law, regulations, and the State Constitution.

(Prior Code, § 2.12.02)

   (C)   Supervision of information technology issues. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall manage, and supervise, all city-related IT issues,
and is empowered to take such action consistent with state law and city
ordinances as is necessary to carry out said responsibilities. The
duties, and powers, conferred by this section shall be in addition to
any other duties, or responsibilities, of the Clerk-Treasurer
established by law or ordinance.

   (D)   Duties.

      (1)   General duties for “clerk” responsibilities. To perform
duties prescribed in Subtitle Three of Title 14 of the state code, or as
assigned, and prescribed, by city ordinance adopted by the City Council,
A.C. § 14-44-109.

      (2)   General duties for “treasurer” responsibilities.

         (a)   Maintain the account records of the city, as prescribed
in the State Municipal Accounting Law (A.C. §§ 14-59-101 et seq.).
During any vacancy in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer, the duties
prescribed in the State Municipal Accounting Law at A.C. §§ 14-59-101 et
seq. shall be performed by the Mayor, or his or her designee, until the
City Council shall appoint a qualified person, or persons, to the office
of Clerk-Treasurer, and such duties shall be prescribed to that person,
or persons, by ordinance of the City Council.

         (b)   All other duties of the City Clerk-Treasurer, not
specifically set forth by state law, or by ordinance of the City
Council, are removed from the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. Any
such duties removed from the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be performed by
the Mayor’s designee.

         (c)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be the collector of all
taxes and fees due the city, including, without limitation, all
occupation and privilege taxes, and taxes for the city. During any
vacancy in the office of Clerk-Treasurer, the City Council assigns to
the Mayor, or his or her designee, the authority to keep records on all
taxes, fees, and money collected until such time as the City Council may
appoint a person to the office of Clerk-Treasurer.

      (3)   Additional, specific “clerk” duties and responsibilities.

         (a)   Attend all meetings of the City Council and make a fair,
accurate, and correct record of proceedings, laws, rules, and ordinances
made, and passed, by the City Council.

         (b)   Maintain laws and ordinances of the city, and keep a
correct journal of all proceedings of the City Council (minutes).

         (c)   Produce, or provide, copies of the minutes, ordinances,
and policy manuals upon request.

         (d)   Attend City Council meetings, bid openings, public
hearings, and other meetings which require an official city record,
unless otherwise directed by the City Council.

         (e)   File all required documents, as designated by law.

         (f)   Arrange, and oversee, notice publications in newspapers,
as required by law.

         (g)   Execute contracts and conveyances for sale, purchase, or
lease of real, or personal, property, as required.

         (h)   Respond to the Freedom of Information Act requests for
records of which the City Clerk-Treasurer is the custodian, and help
coordinate responses to the Freedom of Information Act requests pursuant
to A.C. § 25-19-101 et seq.

         (i)   Maintain the records of the city, as required by law or
city ordinance.

         (j)   Sign all contracts, leases, bonds, and debentures of the
city, as required.

         (k)   Assist with preparation, and distribution, of City
Council agenda packets.

         (l)   Responsible for communication, and interface, with the
city telecommunications and IT providers.

      (4)   Additional, specific “treasurer” duties and
responsibilities.

         (a)   Maintain banks statements for each month for the City
General Fund, Street Fund, Court Automated Fund, Administration of
Justice Fund, Undercover Operation Fund, Rescue Emergency Management
Fund, Fire Insurance Turnback Fund, and the Fire Association Fund
accounts.

         (b)   Maintain cash receipt books and printers’ certificates.

         (c)   Maintain cash receipts and disbursement journals with
monthly, and year-to-date, totals, transactions records, and a detailed
general ledger.

         (d)   Retain check stubs.

         (e)   Maintain details of certificates of deposits, including
interest rates and renewal dates.

         (f)   Maintain, and complete, bank reconciliations for each
month, and deposit slips that indicate the range of receipts on each
deposit ticket.

         (g)   Maintain filing of paid invoices.

         (h)   Maintain IRS 1099 forms for interest earned.

         (i)   Maintains individual payroll records.

         (j)   Prepare quarterly payroll reports.

         (k)   Maintains W-2s, W-3s, W-4s, 1099s, and the personal
records for non-uniformed employees.

         (l)   Create six-month financial statements, and proofs of
publication.

         (m)   Maintain copies of all insurance policies.

         (n)   Maintain copies of all personnel policies.

         (o)   Assist in creating budgets and amended budgets.

         (p)   Maintain copies of all city (not the Water and Sewer
Departments) audit reports.

         (q)   Maintain general ledgers.

         (r)   Responsible for the receipt of revenues.

         (s)   Manages/approves disbursements for expenses incurred for
the city (not the Water and Sewer Departments).

         (t)   Responsible for investment activities, including cash
management banking and ensuring appropriate collateralization of funds.

         (u)   Establishes, maintains, and administers effective
internal control practices and procedures.

         (v)   Maintains detailed records related to the city’s fixed
assets.

         (w)   Assists with developing/implementing annual operating
budget, financial statement audit, and other budgetary projects.

         (x)   Respond to request for financial information, and Freedom
of Information Act requests pursuant to A.C. § 25-19-101 et seq. for
which the City Clerk-Treasurer is the custodian.

         (y)   Attend all meetings of the City Council, special or
called meetings, and work sessions upon request.

         (z)   Prepare a monthly treasurer’s report to be presented at
each regular City Council meeting that shall include all electronic bank
transfers, reconciled financials, deposits, and revenue sources.

         (aa)   Reconcile all City General Fund, Street Fund, Court
Automated Fund, Administration of Justice Fund, Undercover Operation
Fund, Rescue Emergency Management Fund, Fire Insurance Turnback Fund,
and the Fire Association Fund accounts every month.

   (E)   Access to documentation maintained by the office of
Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide access to
documentation maintained by the office of Clerk-Treasurer during normal
business hours of the city, and shall provide documents maintained by
the Clerk-Treasurer to city officials, department heads, or authorized
employees upon request.

   (F)   Removal of other duties. All other duties of the City
Clerk-Treasurer, not specifically set forth by state law, are hereby
removed from the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. Any such duties
removed from the Office of the City Clerk-Treasurer by this section
shall be performed by the Mayor’s designee. The City Clerk-Treasurer
shall not be responsible for any duties, or requirements, contained in
the State Municipal Water and Sewer Department Accounting Law (A.C. §§
14-237-101 through 14-237-113).

(Ord. 2015-08, passed - -; Ord. 2017-15, passed 2-14-2017; Ord. 2018-3,
passed 2-13-2018; Ord. 2022-10, passed 3-22-2022)

§ 31.03 ALDERMAN, ALDERWOMAN DISTRICTING.

   (A)   Adoption of plan. The ward redistricting plan, as shown on the
map under division (B) below, and made a part hereof, be, and is hereby
adopted, with said map to serve hereafter as the official ward map for
the city.

(Prior Code, § 2.20.01)

   (B)   Filing of plan. A duly certified copy of said map shall be
filed with the County Election Commission, and filed in the office of
the County Clerk.

(Prior Code, § 2.20.03)

(Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-14-2012)

§ 31.04 BUILDING OFFICIAL.

   (A)   Establishment. The office of Building Official is hereby
established as an appointive office within the city. The office of the
Building Official shall be appointed, as set forth herein, upon when the
position is duly provided for in the annual budget approved by the City
Council. In the absence of an employed Building Official, the Building
Official shall be a person, or persons, hired under contract to perform
the duties set forth herein, according to the terms, and conditions, of
the contract which must be approved by the City Council.

   (B)   Appointment and removal. As provided by A.C. §§ 14-56-202, when
applicable, and 14-42-110, the Building Official shall be appointed, and
may be removed, by the Mayor, unless the City Council shall, by a
two-thirds majority vote of the total membership of the Council, vote to
override the Mayor’s action. It shall not be necessary, however, for the
Council to vote to approve the Mayor’s decision. If the Building
Official is not duly provided for in the annual budget approved by the
City Council, the Building Officials shall be a person, or persons,
hired under contract, as provided in division (A) above.

   (C)   Absence or disability. During temporary absence, or disability,
of the Building Official, the Mayor shall designate an acting Building
Official. In the absence of an employed Building Official, the persons
hired under contract to perform the duties set forth herein shall
professionally communicate with each other and the city regarding
scheduling of services, scheduling conflicts, information that will
assist the other contractor in coverage, and completion of covered
inspections during an absence, and provide as much advanced notification
to ensure coverage by contracted inspectors, and to enable the Mayor to
designate an acting Building Official in the rare occasion that the
contractor, or contractors, are unavailable to provide coverage.

   (D)   Qualifications. The Building Official shall be physically
capable of making the necessary examinations and inspections. He or she
shall not have any interest whatever, directly or indirectly, in the
sale or manufacture of any material, process, or device entering into,
or used in or connected with, building construction, alterations,
removal, and demolition. Further, the Building Official shall have the
following certifications:

      (1)   State HVAC Inspector certification by State Department of
Health;

      (2)   State Plumbing Inspector certification by State Department
of Health; and

      (3)   State Board of Electrical Examiners certification as
Electrical Inspector.

   (E)   Duties. The Building Official shall:

      (1)   Receive applications required by applicable codes, issue
permits, and furnish the prescribed certificates;

      (2)   Examine the premises for which permits have been issued, and
shall make necessary inspections to see that the provisions of law are
complied with and that construction is prosecuted safely; and

      (3)   Enforce all provisions of the building codes. When requested
by proper authority, or when the public interest so requires, the
Building Official shall make investigations in connection with matters
referred to in the building codes and render written reports on the
same. The Building Official shall issue such notices, or orders, as may
be necessary enforce compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe
conditions, to secure the necessary safeguards during construction, or
to require adequate exit facilities in buildings and structures.

   (F)   Inspections. Inspections required under the provisions of the
building codes shall be made by the Building Official, or his or her
duly appointed assistant. The Building Official may accept reports of
inspectors of recognized inspection services, after investigation of
their qualifications and reliability. No certificate called for by any
provision of the building code shall be issued on such reports, unless
the same are in writing and certified to by a responsible officer of
such service.

   (G)   Records. The Building Official shall keep comprehensive records
of applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of
inspections made or reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued.
All such records shall be open to public inspection and copying at the
stated office hours in compliance with the State Freedom of Information
Act, but shall not be removed from the office of the Building Official
without his or her written consent.

   (H)   Reports. The Building Official shall make written reports to
his or her immediate superior once each month, or more often, if
requested, including statements of permits and certificates issued and
orders promulgated.

   (I)   Liability. It is the intent of the City Council that the
Building Official, and any employees or agents assisting in the
functions of the Building Official, shall enjoy the protections of
statutory immunity from suit, qualified immunity, good faith immunity,
and all other legal protections and immunities allowed by law in the
performance of his or her official duties. Therefore, nothing contained
within this section shall be deemed to waive any immunity or defense to
suit to which the Building Official, agents, or employees engaged in
such functions may be entitled by law.

      (1)   In addition, nothing contained in this section shall be
deemed to create any cause of action whatsoever against the Building
Official or the aforementioned agents or employees. Any suit brought
against any such person shall be defended by the City Attorney or legal
representative of the city.

      (2)   The provisions of this section shall apply with equal force
to the members of any construction board of adjustment or appeals, or
similar body, which may now exist or may be hereafter created within the
city.

   (J)   Right of entry. The Building Official, in the discharge of his
or her official duties, and upon proper identification, shall have
authority to enter any building, structure, or premises after obtaining
a proper warrant, or may enter without a warrant in such cases in which
warrantless entry is authorized by law. The Building Official is charged
with the responsibility to learn the requirements of the law with
respect to entry into buildings and onto private property and shall,
when feasible, seek the advice of the City Attorney in connection with
any such entry or administrative search.

   (K)   Emergency clause. It is of the utmost urgency that the city has
the ability to enforce applicable building codes to protect the property
and lives of the citizens of the city; therefore, an emergency is hereby
declared to exist, and this section, being necessary for the immediate
protection of the public peace, health, and safety, took effect
immediately on its passage and approval on August 9, 2017.

(Ord. 2017-32, passed 8-9-2017)

§ 31.05 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.

   (A)   Citations. The Code Enforcement Officer, and his or her
deputies, as duly appointed by the Mayor, be, and are, hereby
authorized, and charged, to issue citations for violations of municipal
codes, ordinances, and regulations of the city, under the provisions of
A.C. § 12-9-108(b)(3).

(Prior Code, § 2.36.01)

   (B)   Restrictions. The authorization does not pertain to enforcement
of the criminal statutes of the state, enforcement of which are vested
in certified law enforcement officers. The authority to issue citations
does not include arrests, or apprehension, authority.

(Prior Code, § 2.36.02)

(Ord. 98-5, passed - -)

CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS

Section

General Provisions

   32.01   Water Committee

   32.02   Sewer Committee

   32.03   Northwest State Conservation Authority

Planning Commission

   32.15   Commission created

   32.16   Terms of office

   32.17   Compensation

   32.18   Vacancies in office

   32.19   Election of officers

   32.20   General goals and purposes

   32.21   Powers and duties

   32.22   Quorum

   32.23   General meeting procedures

   32.24   Public hearing procedures

   32.25   Work session

   32.26   Appropriation by Council required; expending, encumbering
funds

   32.27   Cooperation with other planning bodies

   32.28   Territorial jurisdiction

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 32.01 WATER COMMITTEE.

   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a committee of the city to be
known as the City Water Committee, which shall be comprised of five
members.

(Prior Code, § 10.16.01)

   (B)   Powers and duties. The Committee shall have all of the powers,
and duties, delegated to it by the City Council. The Water Committee
will have the power to take all steps and proceedings, and to enter into
all contracts, and agreements, necessary, or incidental, to the
performance of its duties, except that any contract relating to
financing, or any trust indenture, shall be approved by the City Council
before it is effective.

      (1)   The Committee may employ engineers, architects, inspectors,
managers, and the like, as may be necessary in the execution of its
powers and duties, and may fix their compensation. All compensation,
expenses, and liabilities shall be paid solely from funds provided to
the Water Committee, and the Committee may not bind the municipality
beyond this amount.

      (2)   No contract, or agreement, shall be made with a contractor
for materials, or labor, for over $10,000 without advertising for bids.
Bids must be publicly opened, and award made to the best bidder, with
power in the Committee to reject any, or all, bids.

      (3)   After construction, or acquisition, of the works, the
Committee shall:

         (a)   Operate, manage, and control the water system, and may
order, and complete, any extensions, betterments, and improvements if
funds are available, or are made available;

         (b)   Establish rules, and regulations, for the use, and
operation, of the water system; and

         (c)   Do all things necessary, and expedient, for the
successful operating of the water system.

(Prior Code, § 10.16.02)

   (C)   Members.

      (1)   The members of the Water Committee shall be appointed by the
Mayor, and shall become valid following confirmation of such
appointments by the City Council. The members shall consist of the
following:

         (a)   Two City Council members;

         (b)   One citizen of the city;

         (c)   The Director of Public Works for the city; and

         (d)   The Water and Sewer Clerk for the city.

      (2)   The Mayor of the city shall serve as an ex-officio member of
the Water Committee.

      (3)   The terms of service for the citizen of the city and the
City Council member shall be for a period of two years, and the terms
service for the other members of the Committee shall be for the term
they maintain the position of Director of Public Works, Water and Sewer
Clerk, and Mayor.

   (D)   Authority of the City Council. The Committee shall function
under the control of the City Council. The City Council may remove any
member of the Committee with, or without, cause, and may appoint any
substitute members in case of death, removal, or resignation.

(Prior Code, § 10.16.04)

(Ord. 2007-3, passed - -; Ord. 2019-02, passed 1-8-2019)

§ 32.02 SEWER COMMITTEE.

   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a committee of the city to be
known as the City Sewer Committee, which shall be comprised of five
members.

(Prior Code, § 10.08.01)

   (B)   Powers and duties. The Committee shall have all of the powers,
and duties, provided by A.C. § 14-235-207, as the same may be amended
from time to time. As set forth therein, the Sewer Committee will have
the power to take all steps, and proceedings, and to enter into all
contracts, and agreements, necessary, or incidental, to the performance
of its duties, except any contract relating to financing, or any trust
indenture, shall be approved by the City Council before it is effective.
The Committee may employ engineers, architects, inspectors, managers,
and the like, as may be necessary in the execution of its powers and
duties, and may fix their compensation. All compensation, expenses, and
liabilities shall be paid solely from funds provided to the City Sewer
Committee, and the Committee may not bind the municipality beyond this
amount.

      (1)   No contract, or agreement, shall be made with a contractor
for materials, or labor, for over $10,000 without advertising for bids.
Bids must be publicly opened, and award made to the best bidder, with
power in the Committee to reject any, or all, bids.

      (2)   After construction, or acquisition, of the works, the
Committee shall:

         (a)   Operate, manage, and control the works, and may order,
and complete, any extensions, betterments, and improvements if funds are
available, or are made available;

         (b)   Establish rules, and regulations, for the use, and
operation, of the works, and other sewers, and drains, connected to
them; and

         (c)   Do all things necessary, and expedient, for the
successful operating of the works.

(Prior Code, § 10.08.02)

   (C)   Members.

      (1)   The members of the Sewer Committee shall be appointed by the
Mayor, and shall become valid following confirmation of such
appointments by the City Council. The members shall consist of the
following:

         (a)   Two City Council members;

         (b)   One citizen of the city;

         (c)   The Director of Public Works for the city; and

         (d)   The Water and Sewer Clerk for the city.

      (2)   The Mayor of the city shall serve as an ex-officio member of
the Sewer Committee. The terms of service for the citizen of the city
and the City Council member shall be for a period of two years, and the
terms of service for the other members of the Committee shall be for the
term they maintain the position of Director Public Works, Water and
Sewer Clerk, and Mayor.

   (D)   Authority of the City Council. The Committee shall function
under the control of the City Council. The City Council may remove any
member of the Committee with, or without, cause, and may appoint any
substitute members in case of death, removal, or resignation.

(Prior Code, § 10.08.04)

(Ord. 2005-21, passed - -; Ord. 2019-01, passed 1-8-2019)

§ 32.03 NORTHWEST STATE CONSERVATION AUTHORITY.

   (A)   Membership.

      (1)   The city has determined that it is in its best interest to
continue to be a member of the Northwest State Conservation Authority.
The cities of Bentonville, Bethel Heights, Cave Springs, Centerton, Elm
Springs, Highfill, Lowell, Rogers, Springdale, and Tontitown are
proposed to be members of the Authority under the fourth amended
agreement.

      (2)   The powers granted to the Authority are those contained in
the Act, and the fourth amended agreement. There are no limitations on
the exercise of the powers granted, except those limitations contained
in the constitutions of the United States and the state, and the
statutes of the state.

      (3)   The Board of Directors of the Authority shall be
constituted, as provided in the fourth amended agreement. Each
participating city shall appoint the person(s) to the Board of
Directors, as enumerated in the fourth amended agreement, which
appointment shall become effective upon approval by the City Council.
The city has already appointed its members to that Board, and no further
action need be taken.

(Prior Code, § 10.24.01)

   (B)   Details of Authority.

      (1)   The fourth amended agreement, and the terms and conditions
thereof, are hereby approved.

      (2)    The Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer are authorized to approve,
and sign, an amended application to be filed with the Secretary of
State, to reflect the current membership of the Authority.

      (3)    The Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer are hereby authorized to
execute, and deliver, the fourth amended agreement.

(Prior Code, § 10.24.02)

(Ord. 2006-28, passed - -)

PLANNING COMMISSION

§ 32.15 COMMISSION CREATED.

   There is hereby created a Planning Commission for the city to consist
of six members. At least two-thirds of said Commission shall not hold
any other elective, or appointive, municipal office. All members shall
reside within the planning jurisdiction of the city. The members of the
Planning Commission shall be nominated by the Mayor, and confirmed by a
majority vote of the City Council.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.16 TERMS OF OFFICE.

   (A)   The terms of service of each position on the Planning
Commission shall be for a period of three years, except that the initial
terms for each position shall be as set forth below, and the initial
membership of the Planning Commission, as nominated, and approved,
hereunder shall be as follows:

  ---------- ------
  Position   Term
  ---------- ------

  ---------------------- -------------
  Position               Term
  Position 1             One year
  Position 2             One year
  Position 3             Two years
  Position 4             Two years
  Position 5             Three years
  Position 6             Three years
  Alternate Position 1   Three years
  Alternate Position 2   Three years
                         
  ---------------------- -------------

 

   (B)   All terms shall begin on January 1 of the year following
appointment, and shall expire on December 31 three years therefrom,
except for the initial terms specified hereinabove, which shall begin on
July 9, 2007, and expire on December 31 of the years designated herein.
By December 1 of each year when the term of office of any member of the
Planning Commission expires, the Mayor shall make, and submit, a
nomination to fill the position for the next term to the City Council
for confirmation by a majority vote. All members shall serve until their
successors have been appointed, and qualified.

   (C)   The Mayor may designate two alternate members, who are allowed
to vote and make motions in the absence of a Planning Commission member.
The Mayor shall make, and submit, a nomination to fill the two alternate
positions to the City Council for confirmation by a majority vote. All
alternate members terms shall begin on January 1 of the year following
appointment, and shall expire on December 31 three years therefrom.
Alternate members attendance will be requested not less than 24 hours
prior to the scheduled Planning Commission meeting.

   (D)   Any Planning Commission member may be removed by City Council
for any of the following reasons, but not limited to these reasons, if
demonstrated to the appointing entitys satisfaction:

      (1)   Failure to attend three consecutive regular, or work
session, meetings without a 24-hour notice of absence prior to the
scheduled meeting;

      (2)   Actions, and conduct, unbecoming to a public official of the
city; or

      (3)   Acts, and conduct, detrimental to the peace, health, safety,
and welfare of the city.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.17 COMPENSATION.

   Members of the Planning Commission, to include alternates, shall be
paid $100 for each regular, or work session, meeting attended; payment
to be made monthly.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.18 VACANCIES IN OFFICE.

   When a vacancy shall occur, otherwise than by the expiration of the
term of office, the Mayor shall immediately nominate a person to serve
the remainder of that term, which nomination shall be submitted to the
City Council for confirmation by a majority vote.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.19 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.

   The Planning Commission shall, from its membership, elect a Chair,
and a Vice Chair. The Chair shall not hold any other municipal office,
or appointment.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.20 GENERAL GOALS AND PURPOSES.

   The general goals, and purposes, of the citys Planning Commission
shall be to prepare, or have prepared, a comprehensive plan of the
municipality; receive, and make, recommendations on public, and private,
proposals for development; prepare, and administer, planning
regulations; prepare, and transmit, to the legislative body recommended
ordinances implementing plans; and advise, and counsel, the citys
government, and other public bodies in relation hereto.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.21 POWERS AND DUTIES.

   (A)   The Planning Commission shall make, and adopt, such rules, and
regulations, to govern its proceedings, and for the discharge of its
duties, and the transaction of business, which rules, and regulations,
may provide, without limitation, the following:

      (1)   Establishment of a regular meeting date of the Commission at
least once monthly, or more often, as prescribed by the Commission;

      (2)   Cancellation, or postponement, by the Chair of a regular
monthly meeting, if there is no pressing business at hand; provided,
that a meeting is held at least once each quarter of each calendar year;

      (3)   Holding of special meetings, and the manner of calling the
same;

      (4)   Rules regarding the establishment of a quorum for conducting
the business of the Commission;

      (5)   Establishment of such committees as may be found necessary,
and advisable, and establish the duties of such committees; and

      (6)   Such other rules, and regulations, as shall be deemed
necessary, and appropriate, for the government of its proceedings, and
the discharge of its duties, and the transaction of its business.

   (B)   The Planning Commission shall keep a public record of all
business, resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations made
by it.

   (C)   The Planning Commission shall have the duty, and function, of
promoting public interest in, and understanding of, the long-term
coordinated municipal planning of the city.

   (D)   The Planning Commission shall prepare a planning area map, work
programs, and make such other comprehensive studies, as are required
herein and by state law.

   (E)   After the preparation of the planning area map, the Planning
Commission may prepare such other plans, as deemed appropriate, for all,
or any portion of, the area encompassed by the map, which may consist of
maps, plats, charts, diagrams, and other necessary documents and
descriptive matter; which plans may include, without limitation:

      (1)   Master street plan;

      (2)   Land use plan; and

      (3)   Community facilities plan.

   (F)   Upon adoption of appropriate plans, as needed and provided, the
Planning Commission may prepare, and transmit, to the City Council such
proposed, or recommended, ordinances and regulations, as are deemed
necessary, and appropriate, to carry out the purpose, and intent, of the
plans, or any parts thereof, and to carry out, and protect, the various
elements of the plans.

   (G)   The Planning Commission may prepare, for submission to the City
Council, a recommended zoning ordinance for the entire area of the city,
as well as its planning jurisdiction, upon the adoption, and filing, of
an appropriate land use plan.

   (H)   The Planning Commission may make recommendations, and reports,
to the public, and to public and private agencies.

   (I)   The Planning Commission may enter upon land to make
examinations and surveys, and to maintain necessary monuments, and
markers thereon.

   (J)   The Planning Commission may receive, and spend, funds from
federal, state, county, municipal, and other public, and private,
sources, and may contract with respect thereto.

   (K)   The Planning Commission is hereby authorized to employ such
staff, consultants, and other persons, as it deems necessary, in
carrying out its duties and responsibilities, subject to the provisions
hereof concerning the appropriation, and expenditure, of funds.

   (L)   The Planning Commission shall have such other powers as are
necessary, and appropriate, to carry out the purposes of the Planning
Commission specified herein, as well as any other powers, and duties,
provided by the City Council, and the laws of the state.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.22 QUORUM.

   To establish a quorum, the presence of a majority of the Commissions
members is required. A quorum shall require the attendance of four
Planning Commission members.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.23 GENERAL MEETING PROCEDURES.

   (A)   The Planning Commission shall meet regularly on the first
Tuesday of each month, at 6:30 p.m., or in accordance with the approved
City Planning Commission calendar.

   (B)   Unless otherwise provided herein, organization of, and the
conduct of, business of the Planning Commission shall be governed by the
latest edition of the Handbook for Municipal Officials, published by the
State Municipal League. Insofar as the said Handbook for Municipal
Officials, and the by-laws set out above, do not apply, the
organization, and conduct, of business of the Planning Commission shall
be governed by Roberts Rules of Order, to which they are applicable, and
where they do not conflict with other rules adopted herein.

   (C)   The order of business at regular meetings shall be:

      (1)   Call to order;

      (2)   Pledge of Allegiance;

      (3)   Roll call;

      (4)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting;

      (5)   Public hearing;

      (6)   Old business;

      (7)   New business; and

      (8)   Adjournment.

   (D)   All meetings shall be open to the public, pursuant to the State
Freedom of Information Act, being A.C. § 25-19-101 et seq.

   (E)   It is the policy of the Planning Commission that sufficient
supporting information, such as a site plan, plat of survey, and the
like, accompany the application so staff, and the Planning Commission
members, have adequate time to review the material. Staff will determine
if sufficient supporting information has been provided. An application
without the required supporting information will not be placed on the
agenda.

   (F)   Each member of the Planning Commission shall be notified of the
place, and date, of each meeting with an accompanying agenda by staff,
by written notice, not less than five days prior to the date set for the
meeting. Said notice may be waived by a majority vote of the Planning
Commission.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.24 PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES.

   (A)   The Chair, Vice Chair, or a designated presiding member of the
Planning Commission, shall preside at all hearings.

   (B)   The presiding member shall reserve the right to assure an
orderly hearing, and shall take the following necessary steps to
maintain the order, and decorum, of the hearing at all times:

      (1)   The presiding member introduces the agenda item by document
number;

      (2)   The presiding member requests staff report and staff
recommendation, if appropriate;

      (3)   The staff presents the application to the Planning
Commission, including the request, pertinent information, and staff
recommendation;

      (4)   The presiding member directs the Planning Commissioners to
address any questions to the staff;

      (5)   The presiding member requests the applicant, or authorized
representative, to approach, and speak to, the Planning Commission;

      (6)   The presiding member directs the Planning Commissioners to
address any questions to the applicant, or representative;

      (7)   Prior to opening any public hearing portion, the presiding
member explains the procedures, and time limitations, for people who
wish to comment. It shall be made clear at the hearing that all
questions, and comments, must be directed through the presiding member
after having been duly recognized. Public comments shall be heard as
follows:

         (a)   Approach the podium;

         (b)   Clearly state your name, and address, for the record, and
sign the sign-in sheet;

         (c)   If the comments have been previously presented, refrain
from repeating, and state that

you are in agreement with, or disagreement with, an issue;

         (d)   Comments should be as clear and succinct as possible; and

         (e)   Comments should be three minutes or less.

      (8)   The presiding member opens for public comment so that
attendees may speak on the application;

      (9)   After public comment, if any, the presiding member gives the
applicant, or representative, an opportunity to rebut;

      (10)   The presiding member closes the public comments portion,
and opens the review session for the Planning Commissioners;

      (11)   No additional information shall be admitted during the
review session, unless specifically requested by a member of the
Planning Commission;

      (12)   The Planning Commission shall vote on any motions made and
seconded. A failed motion does not constitute a recommendation of the
opposite. A motion passes when it receives the majority vote of the
members present and voting; and

      (13)   The presiding member announces the vote and provides the
date, time, and location for the appropriate City Council meeting, if
applicable.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.25 WORK SESSION.

   (A)   The Planning Commission may hold a work session on the third
Tuesday of any month, at 6:30 p.m., or in accordance with the approved
City Planning Commission calendar.

   (B)   The Chair, Vice Chair, or a designated presiding member of the
Planning Commission directs the work session, and shall require orderly
behavior and discussion.

   (C)   No formal actions shall be taken, or motions made, at a work
session.

   (D)   Work sessions shall be open to the public. Public comment is
not required at a work session.

   (E)   Work sessions may be joint sessions including participation by
other city employees, departments, and City Council members.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.26 APPROPRIATION BY COUNCIL REQUIRED; EXPENDING, ENCUMBERING FUNDS.

   The Planning Commission shall not expend, or encumber, funds without
prior appropriation by the City Council.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.27 COOPERATION WITH OTHER PLANNING BODIES.

   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to cooperate with
official, and unofficial, planning bodies for the purpose of
coordinating the preparation of plans for the city, and its adjacent
territory.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

§ 32.28 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.

   The city intends to exercise its territorial jurisdiction, as
provided for by Act 186 of the 1957 State General Assembly (A.C. §
14-56-413), as amended from time to time. Said territorial jurisdiction
of the City Council, for the purpose hereof, shall be exclusive, and
shall include all land lying within one mile of the corporate limits of
the city.

(Ord. 2016-12, passed 6-14-2016)

CHAPTER 33: COURTS

Section

District Court

   33.01   Court Clerk

   33.02   Fines; with restitution

   33.03   Fines; without restitution

DISTRICT COURT

§ 33.01 COURT CLERK.

   The District Court Clerk is hereby designated as the person primarily
responsible for the collection of fines assessed in the District Court
for the city.

(Prior Code, § 2.40.01) (Ord. 2013-13, passed - -)

§ 33.02 FINES; WITH RESTITUTION.

   (A)   Payments on defendants fines, costs, and restitution involving
city citations or violations, when received by the District Court Clerk
and/or deputies, shall henceforth be allocated first as restitution to
victims, pursuant to A.C. § 16-10-209(5)(F).

   (B)   All installment payments shall initially be deemed to be
collections of court costs until the court costs have been collected in
full, with any remaining installment payments representing collections
of restitution, and then fines.

      (1)   If court costs, restitutions, and fines are fully paid, all
remaining installment payments shall be allocated to remaining amounts
due.

      (2)   A municipal or county governing body that adopted municipal
or county legislation before July 1, 2012, to provide an alternative
method of installment payment allocation as then authorized by state law
shall remain in effect until repealed.

(Prior Code, § 2.40.02) (Ord. 2012-11, passed 12-17-2012)

§ 33.03 FINES; WITHOUT RESTITUTION.

   If there is no restitution, or after restitution has been fully paid,
all additional payments shall be applied as paid one-half to court
costs, and one-half to fines.

(Prior Code, § 2.40.03) (Ord. 2012-11, passed 12-17-2012)

CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT

Section

Fire Department

   34.01   Personnel

   34.02   Appointment, removal of Fire Chief

   34.03   Duties of Fire Chief; Secretary/Treasurer

   34.04   Compensation

   34.05   Meetings

   34.06   Registration of volunteer firefighters

   34.07   Certification

   34.08   Duty to, and compensation from, non-members

   34.09   Fire protection outside city limits

Police Department

   34.20   Establishment

   34.21   Appointment, removal of Police Chief

   34.22   Duties of Police Chief

   34.23   Rules, procedures

FIRE DEPARTMENT

§ 34.01 PERSONNEL.

   (A)   The City Fire Department shall consist of the following
officers: Fire Chief; Division Chief of Operations; Division Chief of
Training; Division Chief of Support; three Captains; two Lieutenants;
and a Secretary/Treasurer, and any number of firefighters deemed
necessary, as prescribed by the Chief and his or her other staff.

   (B)   The Fire Department shall reserve the right to make any
additions, or subtractions, as prescribed by departmental standard
operating guidelines, in order to maintain a manageable span of control.

   (C)   All personnel of the City Fire Department shall maintain a
volunteer status.

(Prior Code, § 2.24.01) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)

§ 34.02 APPOINTMENT, REMOVAL OF FIRE CHIEF.

   The Fire Chief shall be nominated by Volunteer Fire Department
members by a popular vote, and said nominee shall be presented to the
Mayor for appointment. The Mayor shall make the final determination as
to the appointment to the position of Fire Chief, taking into account
the recommendation of Volunteer Fire Department members. A Fire Chief
shall then be appointed by the Mayor, unless that appointment is
disapproved by a two-thirds vote of the Council membership. The Mayor
may remove the Fire Chief, unless such removal is overruled by a
two-thirds vote of the Council membership.

(Prior Code, § 2.24.02) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)

§ 34.03 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF; SECRETARY/TREASURER.

   (A)   The Fire Chief shall be the head of the Fire Department, and
shall be fully responsible, and accountable, to the city for the budget
for funds, and responsibilities, as set forth in the State Fire
Protection Services Program, Act 833 of 1991, being A.C. §§ 14-284-401
through 14-284-411 and A.C. § 26-57-614, and for the operation, and the
equipment, of the Department. It shall be his or her duty to determine
all matters in connection with the management, and operation, of the
Department, except the expenditure of city funds therein. He or she
shall make periodic reports to the City Council showing the names of
each firefighter, and the number of hours, or calls, each firefighter
has performed, showing the condition of the equipment of the Department,
and showing other matters as shall be determined as necessary by the
City Council.

   (B)   The Secretary/Treasurer shall keep minutes of each meeting, and
a record of the names of the firefighters of the Fire Department who
attend the monthly meetings, and who perform services at each fire, or
medical, call.

(Prior Code, § 2.24.03) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)

§ 34.04 COMPENSATION.

   The Fire Chief shall receive such pay, or salary, if any, as the City
Council shall adopt, and pass, as it deems proper. If the City Council
does not adopt, and pass, any pay, or salary, for the Fire Chief, the
Fire Chief, all other officers, and volunteer firefighters shall be paid
for such services as they are rendered based upon the number of calls
answered. The City Council shall adopt the following pay schedule, which
may be modified from time to time as deemed necessary. Each firefighter
shall receive $5 for each fire call where water is used, $3 for each
fire call where water is not used, $3 for each medical call, and $2 per
month for attending all Fire Department meetings.

(Prior Code, § 2.24.04) (Ord. 2000-11, passed - -)

§ 34.05 MEETINGS.

   The City Fire Department shall hold two meetings each month for the
purpose of instructing, and training, the firefighters, and for the
purpose of adopting rules, subject to the approval of the City Council,
for the proper functioning of the Department. Members attendance shall
be regulated by departmental standard operating guidelines. Said
meetings shall be held in the evenings of the first, and third, Monday
of each month; however, the Fire Chief, and his or her staff, reserve
the right to increase, or decrease, the number of meetings, or training
sessions, in order to meet certification standards, or needs, of the
Department.

(Prior Code, § 2.24.05) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)

§ 34.06 REGISTRATION OF VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS.

    All volunteer firefighters shall be registered with the Fire Chief,
and their names, addresses, and phone numbers shall be posted in the
Fire Department, and kept on file with the City Clerk-Treasurer. Such
list shall be kept up to date by the Fire Chief.

(Prior Code, § 2.24.06) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)

§ 34.07 CERTIFICATION.

   The City Fire Department shall apply for annual certification, and
classification, by the Director of the office of Fire Protection
Services. Further, all firefighters shall maintain the minimum training
required under state law, including EMS training and AED certification.

(Prior Code, § 2.24.07) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)

§ 34.08 DUTY TO, AND COMPENSATION FROM, NON-MEMBERS.

   Upon receipt of a report of an uncontrolled fire, or a 911 or other
emergency call reporting a fire or medical emergency, it shall be the
duty of the Fire Department to respond to any fire, or medical
emergency, attempt to control, and put out, all fires occurring within
its district involving any real, or personal, property, whether the
property is owned by members, or by non-members, of the fire district.
The Fire Department shall be entitled to recover from the non-member the
reasonable value of its services, as allowed under state law.

(Prior Code, § 2.24.08) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)

§ 34.09 FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.

   Firefighting machinery, and equipment, along with the necessary
firefighters to operate it, may be used to combat fires beyond the
corporate limits of the city, upon the terms, conditions, and
restrictions as are set forth herein, and are subject to change by the
City Council from time to time. In addition, the city may build,
construct, and operate any necessary facilities outside the corporate
limits of the city as the City Council deems necessary, or appropriate,
to house firefighting machinery, equipment, and the firefighters
necessary to properly combat fires beyond the citys corporate limits;
provided, that such decision is made by the proper vote of the City
Council, and is done in a manner consistent with the laws of the state.

(Prior Code, § 2.24.09) (Ord. 2012-5, passed 4-9-2012)

POLICE DEPARTMENT

§ 34.20 ESTABLISHMENT.

   The city establishes a police department, which shall be known as the
City Police Department, and the duties thereof shall be to maintain
police protection, and police services, within the city to preserve the
peace of the city, secure the citizens thereof from personal violence,
and safeguard their property from unlawful deprivations.

(Prior Code, § 2.28.01) (Ord. 2013-9, passed - -)

Statutory reference:

   Similar provision, see A.C. §§ 14-52-101 et seq.

§ 34.21 APPOINTMENT, REMOVAL OF POLICE CHIEF.

   The Mayor shall be responsible for the hiring, and/or appointment, of
a Police Chief. Such Police Chief shall be subject to removal by the
Mayor, unless removal is overruled by the City Council by a two-thirds
vote of the Council membership.

(Prior Code, § 2.28.02) (Ord. 2013-9, passed - -)

§ 34.22 DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.

   The Police Chief shall be the head of the Department, and shall be
fully responsible for the operation, and the management, of the
Department, and shall direct the work of the Department. All officers of
the Department shall be under the direct supervision of, and shall
report to, the Police Chief. The Police Chief is directly charged with
the responsibility, and accountability, to the city for all of the
equipment utilized by the Department. It shall be his or her duty to
determine all matters in connection with the operation of his or her
Department, except the expenditure of city funds. The Police Chief shall
report directly to the Mayor and the Police Chief, or his or her
designee, shall attend each Council meeting, and make his or her monthly
report to the City Council concerning the operation, and equipment, of
the Department, and furnishing any information required by the City
Council, and such other matters as shall be determined necessary by
ordinance of the City Council. Other duties shall be such as are fixed
by the laws of the state, and resolutions and ordinances of the city.

(Prior Code, § 2.28.03) (Ord. 2013-9, passed - -)

§ 34.23 RULES, PROCEDURES.

   The City Police Department, in consultation with the City Attorney,
shall adopt, and establish, such rules, and procedures, as may be deemed
necessary for the proper functioning of the Department, but all such
rules, and procedures, are subject to approval of the City Council.

(Prior Code, § 2.28.04) (Ord. 2013-9, passed - -)

CHAPTER 35: FINANCES AND TAXATION

Section

Finances

   35.01   Fixed asset; definition

   35.02   Purchases of supplies

Taxation

   35.15   Property tax

   35.16   Sales and use tax

   35.17   Alcoholic beverages; supplemental tax

Funds

   35.30   Undercover Operation Fund

FINANCES

§ 35.01 FIXED ASSET; DEFINITION.

   A FIXED ASSET shall be any asset of land, building, personal
property, or equipment which has the useful life, and a value, of $2,500
or more. An asset with a lesser value shall not be considered a FIXED
ASSET for the purpose of including the asset in the listing of fixed
assets owned by the municipality. A FIXED ASSET list shall be maintained
by the city, as set forth in A.C. § 14-59-107 as the provisions of this
section.

(Ord. 2019-09, passed 5-28-2019)

§ 35.02 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES.

   (A)   Purchases of $15,000 or under.

      (1)   The Mayor of the City of Cave Springs, Arkansas or his or
her duly authorized representative, shall have exclusive power and
responsibility to make purchases of all supplies, apparatus, equipment,
materials and other things requisite for public purposes for the City of
Cave Springs and to make all necessary contracts for work or labor to be
done, or material or other necessary things to be furnished for the
benefit of the city, or in carrying out any work or undertaking of a
public nature therein, where the amount of the expenditure for any
purpose or contract does not exceed the sum of $15,000.

      (2)   The spending limit requiring City Council approval shall be
followed for all expenditures and projects, except it shall not apply to
purchases set forth in A.C. § 14-58-104 or budgeted expenses which
reoccur on a regular basis. Such budgeted expenses which reoccur on a
regular basis include budgeted utility payments, City Council approved
contracts requiring regular payments, budgeted payroll tax or
insurance/benefits payments or budgeted and approved professional
service expenses that have been approved and budgeted by the City
Council. In the event of an emergency that affects the health or safety
of individuals or property, the Mayor or the Mayor's authorized
representative shall be allowed in accordance to law to make such
expenditures as required to protect the health and safety of persons or
protect property to the extent permissible by law, but at the earliest
possible convenience shall have such expenditures ratified and approved
by the City Council.

   (B)   Purchases over $15,000. Where the amount of expenditure for any
purchase or contract exceeds the sum of $15,000, and where such
expenditures do not qualify as purchases set under A.C. § 14-58-104, the
City of Cave Springs, Arkansas Accounting and Budgeting Policy or as
budgeted expenses which reoccur on a regular basis, the Mayor of the
City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, or his or her duly authorized
representative, shall obtain approval of the City Council prior to
making such purchases.

   (C)   Approval of payment. The Mayor of the City of Cave Springs,
Arkansas, or his or her duly authorized representative, may approve for
payment out of any funds previously appropriated for that purpose, or
disapprove any bills, debts or liabilities asserted as claims against
the city, when funds on hand are adequate to pay such bills, debts or
liabilities. The payment or disapproval of any bills, debts or
liabilities not covered by a previous appropriation shall require
confirmation of the City Council.

   (D)   Sale or exchange of supplies. The Mayor of the City of Cave
Springs, Arkansas, or his or her duly authorized representative, may
sell or exchange any municipal supplies, materials or equipment having a
value in excess of $15,000 only with the prior approval of the City
Council of the City of Cave Springs. Supplies, materials or equipment
not exceeding the value of $15,000 may be sold by the Mayor, or his or
her duly authorized representative, without the approval of the Cave
Springs City Council.

   (E)   Competitive bidding. Except as provided in A.C. § 14-58-104,
all expenditures which exceed $35,000, or the amount for competitive
bidding as amended or provided for by law as set forth in A.C. §
14-58-303, shall performed by the Mayor or the Mayor's authorized
representative through the invitation of competitive bidding as required
by law.

(Prior Code, § 3.20.01) (Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 2019-07, passed
5-28-2019; Ord. 2022-12, passed 4-26-2022)

TAXATION

§ 35.15 PROPERTY TAX.

   (A)   Property tax. A voluntary property tax in the amount of two
mills for the exclusive benefit of the City Municipal Park Fund is
hereby established on all property within the city limits.

(Prior Code, § 3.12.01)

   (B)   Application. This voluntary property tax shall apply to the
1985 property tax assessment, and all succeeding property tax
assessments.

(Prior Code, § 3.12.02)

(Ord. 63, passed - -)

§ 35.16 SALES AND USE TAX.

   (A)   (1)   Under the authority of the authorizing legislation, there
is hereby levied a new 1.25% tax on the gross receipts from the sale at
retail within the city of all items which are subject to the State Gross
Receipts Act of 1941, as amended (A.C. §§ 26-52-101 et seq.), and the
imposition of a new excise (or use) tax on the storage, use,
distribution, or other consumption within the city of tangible personal
property subject to the State Compensating Tax Act of 1949, as amended
(A.C. §§ 26-53-101 et seq.), at a rate of 1.25% of the sale price of the
property or, in the case of leases or rentals, of the lease or rental
price (collectively, the “sales and use tax”).

      (2)   The sales and use tax shall be levied, and collected, on the
gross receipts, gross proceeds, or sales price in the maximum amount
allowed, from time to time, under state law, subject to rebates and
limitations as required for certain single transactions, as from time to
time required by state statutes.

   (B)   The sales and use tax shall be levied, and the net collections
received after deduction of the administrative charges of the state, and
required rebates shall be used by the city to pay, and secure, the
repayment of bonds approved by the voters, and issued by the city to
finance capital improvements; provided, however, that any amounts not
necessary to fully retire any bonds may be used for any lawful municipal
purpose.

   (C)   The sales and use tax shall expire on the first date on which
the sales and use tax can be administratively removed when:

      (1)   There are sufficient funds to pay, in full, any outstanding
bonds secured by a pledge of collections of the sales and use tax; and

      (2)   The City Council determines that the purposes of the sales
and use tax cannot be, or cannot continue to be, fulfilled because no
additional bonds secured by a pledge of collections of the sales and use
tax will be issued in the future.

(Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-9-2019)

§ 35.17 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SUPPLEMENTAL TAX.

   (A)    Pursuant to A.C. § 3-9-214, a supplemental 4% tax is hereby
levied on the gross receipts for the sale of spirituous beverages for
on-premises consumption by establishments in the city.

   (B)   The calculation, and payment, of said supplemental tax shall be
identical to the calculation, and payment, of the supplemental tax
levied by the state pursuant to A.C. § 3-9-213, with the exception being
the proceeds from said tax shall be paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer.

(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-12-2016)

FUNDS

§ 35.30 UNDERCOVER OPERATION FUND.

   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a special fund to be
known as the Undercover Operation Fund.

(Prior Code, § 2.32.01)

   (B)   Funding. There is hereby appropriated from the citys General
Fund the sum of $500 for the initial funding of the Undercover Operation
Fund.

(Prior Code, § 2.32.02)

   (C)   Fund ceiling. The Undercover Operation Fund shall have a
maximum ceiling of $2,000. All sums in excess of said amount out in
division (D) below shall immediately be paid over to the citys General
Fund.

(Prior Code, § 2.32.03)

   (D)   Contributions to the fund. Contributions to the Undercover
Operation Fund may come from any source not prohibited by city
ordinance, or state, or federal, law, including, but not limited to,
organizations, court-ordered restitution in criminal cases, court
contributions to the fund in criminal cases, and any federal, or state,
funds available for such operations not inconsistent with the purposes
of the Undercover Operation Fund.

(Prior Code, § 2.32.04)

   (E)   Purpose of fund. The Undercover Operation Fund will be used for
the purpose of conducting undercover law enforcement investigation of
illegal drug trafficking, and the investigation of theft schemes, and
other such crimes.

(Prior Code, § 2.32.05)

   (F)   Use of funds. The money in the Undercover Operation Fund, when
used for the purposes set out in division (E) above, may be spent on the
following types of items, to-wit:

      (1)   Purchases of food, lodging, and travel expenses of law
enforcement personnel, informants, and any other person necessary for
implementation of the undercover operation;

      (2)   Flash money;

      (3)   Purchases of controlled substances, stolen property,
contraband, or information related to any criminal activity; and

      (4)   Other similar, and necessary, items.

(Prior Code, § 2.32.06)

   (G)   Operating guidelines. The following shall constitute the
general operating guidelines of the Undercover Operation Fund:

      (1)   Responsibility for the funds integrity shall rest with the
Police Chief of the City Police Department;

      (2)   The Police Department will implement, and follow, accounting
guidelines promulgated by the Legislative Audit Committee for the state;

      (3)   At the conclusion of a criminal case in which monies from
the Undercover Operation Fund are used, a line item expenditure report
shall be made available for inspection by the City Council. The decision
as to when a criminal case is concluded will be made by the City
Prosecutor or, in appropriate instances, the prosecuting County
Attorney, after consulting with the Police Chief; and

      (4)   The Undercover Operation Fund will be administered by the
Police Department on a cash-only basis.

(Prior Code, § 2.32.07)

(Ord. 2002-12, passed - -)

CHAPTER 36: GENERAL CITY POLICIES

Section

General Provisions

   36.01   Surveillance practices; posting of notices

   36.02   Declaration of eminent domain; standards, requirements

   30.03   Referendum petitions

City Record Retention

   36.15   Establishment of policy

   36.16   Compliance provision

   36.17   Maintaining records

   36.18   Police Department records

   36.19   Employee records

   36.20   Certification of records; Mayors role

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 36.01 SURVEILLANCE PRACTICES; POSTING OF NOTICES.

   (A)   Recognition. The City Council recognizes surveillance practices
as sometimes necessary for the safety, and security, of businesses or
municipal facilities. The City Council further recognizes a potential
for misuse, or misconduct in the use, of surveillance practices that
creates an absolute necessity for establishment of minimum requirements,
and standards, for implementation, and operation, of all said
surveillance practices.

   (B)   Requirements. All businesses and municipal facilities utilizing
surveillance practices shall post notification of surveillance on each
exterior door, ground floor exterior window, interior points of public
contact, and interior security points. Further notification shall
include phone message and email footnote when monitored, or recorded, by
someone other than the recipient.

   (C)   Standards. The minimum required standards for posting
notification of surveillance shall be as follows:

      (1)   Exterior doors and windows shall have a notification posted
in clear view that states the nature, type, and location of
surveillance; for example, “The indoor areas of these premises are
monitored by Audio and Video surveillance equipment and the outdoor
properties and parking areas are monitored by Video surveillance
equipment only”;

      (2)   Email shall have a footnoted notification/disclaimer; for
example, “All email sent or received through this companys/municipalitys
email service is monitored and recorded internally by a third party, for
surveillance purposes”; and

      (3)   The phone system shall have a similar message before
extension options are given; for example, “All calls are monitored and
recorded for surveillance purposes”.

   (D)   Approval. The City Council does approve the requirement that
each business, or municipal building, which utilizes surveillance
practices, shall post, for the general public, notice of said
surveillance in accordance with divisions (B) and (C) above.

(Ord. 2018-07, passed 4-10-2018)

§ 36.02 DECLARATION OF EMINENT DOMAIN; STANDARDS, REQUIREMENTS.

   (A)   Recognition of conflict. In recognition that the sanctity of
private property ownership rights, and public needs, are on rare
occasions in conflict, the city shall establish requirements, and
standards, to govern the declaration of eminent domain.

   (B)   Requirement to pursue a negotiated agreement. Prior to a
declaration of eminent domain, the city shall pursue a mutual agreement
with the property owner(s). As an affront to the sanctity of private
property rights, eminent domain shall only be declared with forethought,
and earnest pursuit, of all reasonable alternatives.

   (C)   Standard to qualify for eminent domain. The only standard that
rises to a magnitude of importance to merit the declaration of eminent
domain is that which meets the burden of actual public needs, such as
easements required for the construction, or improvement, of necessary
public infrastructures like streets, roads, and utilities.

   (D)   Prohibitions of declaration. The city shall not declare eminent
domain for the purposes of recreational use or private enterprise.
Recreational use, such as parks, trails, and recreational facilities,
are wants that fail to meet the burden of the actual public needs
criteria required to merit a denial of the sanctity of private property
rights. Private entities shall always have the responsibility to
independently procure adequate, and appropriate, property through the
free market system.

   (E)   Eminent domain declaration. The city, in respect for the
sanctity of private property rights, shall only declare eminent domain
in cases that meet, or exceed, the burden of the public need criteria,
in accordance with the original intent, and only after all negotiations,
and alternatives, have been exhausted.

(Ord. 2017-16, passed 2-14-2017)

§ 36.03 REFERENDUM PETITIONS.

   (A)   Filing date. All referendum petitions under Amendment No. 7 to
the Constitution of the State must be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
within 30 days after passage, and publication, of any such ordinance, or
resolution.

(Prior Code, § 1.36.01)

   (B)   Notice. Upon the filing of said referendum petition, the Mayor
is hereby directed to give notice by publication for one insertion in a
newspaper having a general circulation in the city (the “city”), and by
posting in five public places in the city of a time not less than five
days after the publication of such notice, at which the Council will
hear all persons who wish to be heard on the question whether such
petition is signed by the requisite number of petitioners. At the time
named, the Council shall meet, and hear, all who wish to be heard on the
question, and its decision shall be final, unless suit is brought in the
County Circuit Court within 30 days to review its action.

(Prior Code, § 1.36.02)

   (C)   Special election. If the Council finds that such petition is
signed by the requisite number of qualified petitioners, it shall order
a special election to determine by a vote of the qualified electors
whether the ordinance, or resolution, shall stand, or be revoked, and
fix a date which shall be not less than ten days after the date of the
action of the Council calling the election.

      (1)   The Mayor shall give notice of the call of such election by
publication in not less than one issue of a newspaper having a general
circulation in the city, and by posting in five public places in the
city not less than five days prior to the date of the election. Such
notice shall designate by its number, caption, and date of passage, the
ordinance which has been referred to the people for approval, or
rejection, by their vote at such election.

      (2)   Otherwise, subject to the provisions of Amendment No. 7 to
the Constitution of the State, and other applicable laws, said election
shall be conducted in the manner provided by law for the conduct of a
regular municipal election.

(Prior Code, § 1.36.03)

   (D)   Defeated. If any ordinance, or resolution, referred to the
people is defeated at the polls, the Council shall make note of such
fact, and shall expunge the ordinance, or resolution, from its files by
erasing the same with red ink.

(Prior Code, § 1.36.04)

(Ord. 2010-5, passed - -)

CITY RECORD RETENTION

§ 36.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICY.

   The city hereby declares, pursuant to Act 1252 of 2005, codified at
A.C. § 14-2-203, that it seeks to establish a policy of record retention
and disposal.

(Prior Code, § 2.44.01) (Ord. 2013-6, passed - -)

§ 36.16 COMPLIANCE PROVISION.

   The city shall seek to comply with any specific state statutes
regarding municipal records, including A.C. §§ 14-2-201 et seq.

(Prior Code, § 2.44.02) (Ord. 2013-6, passed - -)

§ 36.17 MAINTAINING RECORDS.

   The following records shall be maintained permanently in either the
original, or electronic, format as required by law:

   (A)   Ordinances;

   (B)   City Council minutes;

   (C)   Resolutions;

   (D)   Annual financial audits; and

   (E)   Year-end financial statements.

(Prior Code, § 2.44.03) (Ord. 2013-6, passed - -)

§ 36.18 POLICE DEPARTMENT RECORDS.

   Police Department records shall be maintained in accordance with A.C.
§ 14-2-204, and other applicable statutes.

(Prior Code, § 2.44.04) (Ord. 2013-6, passed - -)

§ 36.19 EMPLOYEE RECORDS.

   All employee records (personnel records and otherwise) shall be kept
for as long as a person is employed by the city, plus five years.

(Prior Code, § 2.44.05) (Ord. 2013-6, passed - -)

§ 36.20 CERTIFICATION OF RECORDS; MAYORS ROLE.

   Whenever reproductions of public records have been made in accordance
with A.C. § 14-2-201, and have been placed in conveniently accessible
files, or other suitable formats, and provisions have been made for
preserving, examining, and using them, the head of the city office, or
department, shall certify those facts to the Mayor, who shall have the
power to authorize the disposal, archival storage, or destruction of the
records.

(Prior Code, § 2.44.06) (Ord. 2013-6, passed - -)

TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS

   Chapter

      50.   WATER

      51.   SEWER

      52.   GARBAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

CHAPTER 50: WATER

Section

Water Rates

   50.01   Metered system

   50.02   Meter tamping prohibited

   50.03   Monthly water rates

   50.04   Improvement districts

   50.05   Billing; disconnection for late payment

   50.06   Metering fees

   50.07   Federal Safe Water Drinking Act

   50.08   Meter installation

   50.09   Meter failure

   50.10   Reimbursement of water deposit monies

   50.11   Commercial meters

   50.12   Damage to waterline

Water Impact Fees

   50.25   Impact fee

   50.26   Authority and applicability

   50.27   Definitions

   50.28   Legislative findings

   50.29   Intent

   50.30   Local impact fee imposed

   50.31   Impact fee exceptions

   50.32   Use of Impact Fee Trust Fund

   50.33   Refunds

   50.34   Appeals

   50.35   Capital plan; level of service standards

   50.36   Administration

Cross-Connection Control Program

   50.50   Intent

   50.51   Purpose

   50.52   Definitions

   50.53   Operating criteria

   50.54   Facilities requiring backflow protection

   50.55   Approval of backflow prevention devices

   50.56   Non-compliance

   50.57   Ownership

   50.58   Installation and costs

   50.59   Testing and maintenance

 

   50.99   Penalty

WATER RATES

§ 50.01 METERED SYSTEM.

   (A)   The operation of the municipal water distribution system of the
city (the “water system”) shall be on a fully metered basis, with a
meter installed at each water connection, both public and private. There
shall be but one user on a single meter, and there shall be a service
charge for water service connection, and charges imposed for all water
usage and consumption.

(Prior Code, § 10.20.01)

   (B)   All water meters in the city system are hereby required to be
sealed.

(Prior Code, § 10.20.02)

(Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)

§ 50.02 METER TAMPERING PROHIBITED.

   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water
meter furnished by the city, by breaking the seal of the same with the
intention of changing, or altering, the mechanism of such meter, or by
changing, or altering, in any manner the mechanism of such meter,
including, but not limited to, the unauthorized turning on of a water
meter. Nothing in this section shall be so construed as to prevent any
employee, or duly authorized representative of the city, when acting
under the authority of the Mayor or the Water and Sewer Department
Administrator, from changing, altering, or otherwise working with any
meter furnished by the city. Any violation of this section is punishable
in accordance with the maximum penalties set forth in the city municipal
code and may, at the discretion of the city, subject the customer to
disconnection of water service.

   (B)   In the event a water customer damages the meter set, meter, or
locking device, the Water and Sewer Department Administrator, or
employee or representative designated by said Administrator, shall
determine the cost of repairing said damage, or, of replacing said
equipment, if necessary, and said cost shall be billed to the customer,
and shall be due, and payable, in accordance with the provisions of the
city municipal code.

(Ord. 2019-17, passed 8-26-2019) Penalty, see § 50.99

§ 50.03 MONTHLY WATER RATES.

   (A)   Commencing upon passage of this subchapter, and upon the
commencement of the next billing cycle, the following monthly rates are
hereby fixed as rates to be charged for water furnished by the water
system. The City Council hereby finds, and declares, that the following
rates for each year are fair, just, reasonable, and necessary minimum
rates, be, and they are hereby, fixed as rates to be charged for water
to be furnished, and services to be rendered, by the water system. The
City Council also hereby finds, and declares, that it shall be the
policy of the city to review these rates and charges each year, or
sooner if necessary, to determine if they are sufficient to ensure the
necessary operation, maintenance, financing, and growth of the water
system.

   (B)   The water usage of each customer shall be determined each month
by meter measurement, and the amount to be paid by each customer shall
be computed on the basis of the following schedule of rates for each
year, and for the years beyond until amended, or revised, by the city:

  ---------------- ----------------------
  Type of Charge   Amount to Be Charged
  ---------------- ----------------------

Type of Charge

Amount to Be Charged

Commercial Use

Base amount

$21.58

Flat rate per 1,000 gallons (or any portion thereof)*

$8.10

Outside City Limits Use

Base amount

$23.36

Flat rate per 1,000 gallons (or any portion thereof)

$12.36

Residential Use

Base amount

$19.80

Flat rate per 1,000 gallons (or any portion thereof)*

$7.48

Notes to Table:

*   The flat rate for the first 1,000 gallons of water use indicated
above shall be included in the base amount charge for both residential
and commercial uses.

 

(Prior Code, § 10.20.04) (Ord. 2015-09, passed - -; Ord. 2022-16, passed
6-28-2022)

§ 50.04 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS.

   Any improvement district, or other legal entity, desiring to purchase
water from the city for the resale by individual metering shall be
required to enter into a written contract for the purchase of said
water. Said contract shall establish the rates for the purchase of
water, and the conditions under which said purchases will be made.

(Prior Code, § 10.20.05) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)

§ 50.05 BILLING; DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.

   (A)   The water charges for the previous month’s water service shall
be billed monthly, and if not paid by the fifteenth day of the month, a
10% penalty shall be added.

   (B)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form
for application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in
addition to the title, address, and telephone number of the official in
charge of billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the
effect:

      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;

      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not
paid within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be
discontinued for nonpayment; and

      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be
represented in person and by counsel, or any other person of his or her
choosing, and may present, orally or in writing, his or her complaint
and contentions to the city official in charge of utility billing. This
official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s service not be
discontinued, and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer’s complaint.

   (C)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be
entertained; only questions of proper and correct billing will be
considered. In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resorting
to the hearing procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued
at the time specified, but, in no event, until the charges have been due
and unpaid for at least 30 days.

   (D)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be
reinstated only after all bills for service then due have been paid,
along with a penalty as specified in § 50.99.

   (E)   (1)   If any water rate so charged, and so established, shall
not be paid by the last Thursday of the month in which the bill is
rendered, the premises shall be disconnected from the system following
any notice, as required by law, and shall not be reconnected until the
full amount of delinquent charges, penalty, and a $25 reconnection
charge has been paid in full, which shall be $50 for reconnections
requested after normal business hours, on holidays, or on weekends.

      (2)   In the event the bill due date falls on a weekend or legal
holiday, the bill shall be due the next business day. Any penalties
shall be due the following day of the due date, unless payment in full
for the billed amount is received by the city before the last Thursday
of the month following the month in which the billed services were
rendered. In such case, the penalties owed may be applied to the
customer’s next month’s water bill, or to a customer’s water deposit,
whichever is relevant. The city can also require delinquent, or
disconnected, users to pay, or repay, the deposit referred to in this
code of ordinances.

(Ord. 2019-17, passed 8-26-2019) Penalty, see § 50.99

§ 50.06 METERING FEES.

   The following metering fees are hereby fixed as rates to be charged
for installing water meters by the water works system of the city:

   (A)   (1)   The city shall require a residential applicant for new
water service to pay a meter fee of $350 for a five-eighths inch water
meter, along with a refundable security deposit of $100; and

      (2)   A commercial applicant for a new water service shall be
required to pay $35 for a one-inch meter, and $700 for a one and
one-half inch water meter, along with a refundable security deposit of
$100.

   (B)   There shall also be a connection fee of $1,000, payable to the
city at the time of installation, and prior to the issuance of a
building permit, plus other costs incurred to the city in the
installation of the waterline and meter. The security deposit shall be
retained, without liability for interest, to assure prompt payment of
monthly water bills. To the extent necessary, the security deposit may
be applied to any unpaid charges owed by the user, and any other damage,
injury, expense, or liability caused by the user. Following any such
application of the security deposit, the user may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to restore the security deposit to its original
amount. The security deposit shall be refunded to the user upon the
closing of the customer’s account, and all unpaid charged still owing by
the customer are paid;

   (C)   The connection fee of $1,000 is for future growth, maintenance,
and loan payments of the water system; and

   (D)   There shall also be a monthly meter replacement fee of $1.78
for each user of the water system, which shall be applied to the
replacement of old, or defective, water meters.

(Ord. 2019-05, passed 2-25-2019)

§ 50.07 FEDERAL SAFE WATER DRINKING ACT.

   In addition to the above monthly charges, there shall be a monthly
fee for the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act compliance, as promulgated
and being 42 U.S.C. §§ 300(f) et seq., and required, under the Public
Water System Service Act, Act 1053 of 1991, A.C. §§ 20-28-101 et seq.,
and all amendments thereto, for the State Department of Health Drinking
Water Program. This fee shall be charged each month per service
connection.

(Prior Code, § 10.20.08) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)

§ 50.08 METER INSTALLATION.

   Meters shall be installed at each water connection, except fire
hydrants, and there shall be a charge for all water consumption with the
exception of fire hydrants. Meters shall be installed at each water
connection to all buildings, both public and private, and there shall be
a service charge for water service connection, and charges imposed for
all water consumption. In case of apartment buildings or houses, or
other multi-family dwelling houses, a separate meter shall be installed
for each apartment, or family unit, or one meter may be installed for
the entire apartment house, or multi-family building, in which case, the
building shall be billed as though it were metered to a single customer
unit.

(Prior Code, § 10.20.09) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)

§ 50.09 METER FAILURE.

   Should a customer’s meter be determined by the water system manager
to be inoperative or faulty, the customer’s usage for the purpose of
billing shall be the average usage of the three previous months that the
meter was determined to be functioning properly. Should the meter
failure be determined to have been a long-term failure of three, or
more, months, the customer will be liable for water charges during the
months of meter failure. The user charges for each month of meter
failure shall be based on the average of water usage for the 12 months
prior to the meter failure.

(Prior Code, § 10.20.10) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)

§ 50.10 REIMBURSEMENT OF WATER DEPOSIT MONIES.

   The city shall follow the following procedure for reimbursement of
waster deposit monies:

   (A)   Interest will not be paid on refunds of water deposit monies;

   (B)   Deposits shall be applied to the customer’s account after the
account is closed for non-payment, or due to the customer moving from
the city, as a credit against any outstanding water bill, unless
otherwise arranged for in advance. The remainder of the deposit, if any,
will be refunded to the customer as set out herein;

   (C)   Deposits will be refunded to any customer after settling his or
her account, in full, with the City Water Department; and

   (D)   When a refund is due a customer and the city cannot, after
diligent effort, locate the customer, the city shall make the refund
available to the customer for a period of one year, and deposit those
funds not claimed after one year into the City Water Department’s
General Fund.

(Prior Code, § 10.20.11) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)

§ 50.11 COMMERCIAL METERS.

   Commercial metering costs (one inch and above) shall be borne in full
by the customer, and shall be quoted at the time of the request due to
the variation in costs.

(Prior Code, § 10.20.12) (Ord. 2010-10, passed 8-9-2010)

§ 50.12 DAMAGE TO WATERLINE.

   Water loss due to a leak, or damage, to a waterline lying on the
property of a water system user is the responsibility of the water
system user, and shall be billed to the water system user at the normal,
and applicable, rates. In the case of a leak, or damage, to a waterline
lying on the property of a water system user which results in
significant water loss, the city may allow the water system user to pay
for the approximate loss at a cost value for the water if it can be
properly demonstrated to the city that such damage was not caused by
reckless, or willful, action or inaction, and if proper documentation of
the proof of the repair(s) to waterline are presented to the city. The
city may, at its discretion, offer a payment plan for water users who
have experienced significant water loss due to a leak, or damage, to a
waterline on their property.

(Ord. 2016-24, passed 8-9-2016)

WATER IMPACT FEES

§ 50.25 IMPACT FEE.

   A local water impact fee is hereby established for the city’s water
system for in-city facilities, or improvements, that meet in-city
demand, hereinafter referred to as the “system”.

(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019;)

§ 50.26 AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY.

   (A)   Authority. This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the authority
granted to the city by the A.C. § 14-56-103, and other relevant laws,
and judicial interpretations, of the state.

   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to
all of the territory within the city’s water service area, including the
corporate limits of the city, any unincorporated area of the county
served by the system, and all future additions to said areas.

   (C)   Development fees. The following types of developments shall be
required to pay a local water impact fee:

      (1)   New, and existing, developments seeking a new connection to
the city’s water system, resulting in increased demand from water
facilities. This shall not apply to an existing development that is
connecting to the water system in order to eliminate an individual water
source; and

      (2)    Non-residential, or residential, redevelopments seeking a
larger capacity, or an additional water meter.

(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)

§ 50.27 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.

   CAPITAL WATER FACILITIES. The city’s water distribution system,
pumps, any treatment facilities, lift lines, lift stations,
interceptors, buildings, tanks, improvements to land, land, and related
equipment used to provide city water services, as defined in the study.
The costs of CAPITAL WATER FACILITIES also include the costs of related
planning, and design, for these facilities.

   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate issued by the city permitting
the occupancy of a structure connected to the city’s water system. Said
certificate may be limited to the structure’s water system for those
structures located outside the corporate limits of the city.

   CITY. The City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, including, but not limited
to, its Water Department.

   CITY COUNCIL. The duly elected/appointed City Council.

   DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, or corporation commencing a development
who is obligated to pay an impact fee in accordance with the terms of
this subchapter, or who would be obligated to pay such a fee, except for
an exemption, refund, or credit provided for in this subchapter.

   DEVELOPMENT. Any residential, multi-family, commercial, or industrial
improvement to lands within the system service area.

   IMPACT FEE STUDY (THE STUDY). A study that sets forth reasonable
methodologies and analysis for determining the impact of various types
of development on the city’s capital water facilities, and that
determines the cost of the facilities necessary to meet the demands
created by new development.

   IMPACT FEE TRUST FUND. The Trust Fund established by this subchapter.
There shall be a Water Impact Fee Trust Fund with fees collected into
the respective IMPACT FEE TRUST FUND.

   IMPACT FEES. The local water impact fees established by this
subchapter, pursuant to A.C. § 14-56-103, for service area
utilities/improvements that meet increased service area demand.

   IMPROVEMENTS. The results of planning, engineering, design,
construction inspection, on-site construction, off-site construction,
land, the purchase of related equipment, and financing associated with
new, or expanded, capital water facilities, buildings, and equipment
that expand the capacity of capital water facilities, but not including
maintenance, operations, or improvements that do not expand capacity.

   INDEPENDENT FEE CALCULATION STUDY. A study prepared by McClelland
Engineering (including, but not limited to, all plans and studies
referenced therein), calculating the cost of expansions, or
improvements, to the capital water facilities required to serve the
developer’s proposed development that performed in compliance with this
subchapter.

   PERSON. An individual, corporation, governmental agency, business
trust, estate trust, partnership, association, two, or more, persons
having a joint or common interest, or any other entity.

   STATE. The State of Arkansas.

   SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST. A person, as defined by this subchapter, who
gains a fee simple interest in land for which an impact fee is paid, or
a credit is approved, pursuant to the terms of this subchapter.

   SYSTEM. The city’s municipal water system, including capital water
facilities.

(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)

§ 50.28 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.

   The City Council finds, determines, and declares that:

   (A)   System expansion required. The protection of the health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the city requires that
the city’s capital water facilities be expanded, and improved, to
accommodate growth, and development, with the city;

   (B)   System demand. New residential, and non-residential,
development imposes increased, and excessive, demands upon the existing
system facilities, and often overburdens the existing system facilities;
provided, new development is expected to continue, and will place
ever-increasing demands on the system to provide these facilities to
serve new development;

   (C)   System revenues. System revenues generated from new development
often does not generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary
capital water facilities to accommodate new development; therefore, the
creation of an equitable local water impact fee system would enable the
city to impose a proportionate share of the costs of the needed
improvements to system capital facilities to accommodate new
development;

   (D)   Study conducted. In order to implement an equitable local
impact fee system, the city caused to be prepared a Water and Wastewater
Capital Plan and Impact Fee Analysis, hereinafter termed “study”. Said
study is incorporated herein by reference, and sets forth reasonable
methodologies, and analysis, for determining the impacts of various
types of development on the city’s system capital facilities, and for
determining the costs of acquiring the improvements necessary to meet
the demands for such services created by new development;

   (E)   Standards established. The city hereby establishes as city
standards the assumptions, and level of service standards, in the study
as part of its current plans for future expansions to the city’s system
capital facilities;

   (F)   Impact fee use limited. The impact fees described in this
subchapter are based on the study, and do not exceed the costs of
improvements to serve new development that will pay the impact fees, nor
shall fees be used to correct existing deficiencies for these capital
facilities, or to replace, or rehabilitate, existing improvements. This
is intended to be a local improvement impact fee (for in-city
facilities/improvements that meet in-city demands) as to water;

   (G)   Benefit. Those in-city capital water facilities/improvements
listed in the study will benefit all new development that depends on
city services, and it is therefore appropriate to treat the entire
system as a single service area for purposes of calculating, collecting,
and spending the local government impact fees as to water;

   (H)   Impact fee relationship. There is both a rational nexus and
rough proportionality between the development impacts created by each
type of development covered by this subchapter, and the impact fees that
such development will be required to pay for water; and

   (I)   Impact fee purpose. This subchapter creates a system by which
water impact fees paid by new development will be used to finance,
defray, or reimburse all, or a portion, of the costs incurred by the
city to construct improvements for the system’s capital water facilities
in ways that benefit the development that paid each fee within a
reasonable period of time after the fee is paid.

(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)

§ 50.29 INTENT.

   (A)   Capital improvement plan. This subchapter is adopted to assist
in the implementation of the city’s capital improvement plan for system
projects, as set forth in the study from McClelland Consulting
Engineers, which the plan was reviewed, and approved, by the City Water
and Sewer Committees and City Council, and used in the independent fee
calculation study. To that end, the intent of this subchapter is to
ensure that new development bears a proportionate share of the costs of
improvements to capital water facilities; to ensure that such
proportionate share does not exceed the costs of improvements for
capital water facilities required to accommodate new development; and to
ensure that funds collected from new development are actually used for
improvements for capital water facilities that benefit such new
development.

   (B)   Impact fee purpose. It is further the intent of this subchapter
that new development pays for its fair share of the costs of local
improvements for capital water facilities required to accommodate new
development though imposition of impact fees that will be used to
finance, defray, or reimburse all, or a portion, of the costs incurred
by the city to construct improvements to the city’s capital water
facilities that serve, or benefit, such new development. It is not the
intent of this subchapter to collect any money from any new development
in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new demands for
capital water facilities.

   (C)   Funds restricted. It is not the intent of this subchapter that
any monies collected from any local impact fee deposited in the Water
Impact Fee Trust Fund ever be commingled with monies from any other city
trust funds or account, or ever be used for a type of facility, or
equipment, different from that for which the fees are paid, or are ever
used to replace, or rehabilitate, existing improvements.

(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)

§ 50.30 LOCAL IMPACT FEE IMPOSED.

   (A)   Local impact fee obligation. After the effective date of this
subchapter, any person, firm, or corporation who commences any
development, except those exempted hereinafter, shall be obligated to
pay local impact fees upon commencement of such activity. The amount of
the fees shall be determined in accordance with this subchapter, and
shall be paid to the city as provided hereinafter. All monies paid by a
developer pursuant to this subchapter shall be identified as local water
impact fees, and shall be promptly deposited into the Water Impact Fee
Trust Fund described herein.

   (B)   Local impact fee collection. Effective July 23, 2019, the local
impact fees imposed by this subchapter shall be collected in connection
with, and as a condition to, the installation of a water meter serving
the development, or of the connection to the water system, whichever
comes first.

   (C)   Local impact fee calculation. Local impact fees shall be based
on water meter size. The impact fees established hereinafter may be
revised, from time to time, by the City Council; provided, such
revisions are based upon the independent fee calculation study, or a
subsequent independent fee calculation study.

   (D)   Fee determination.

      (1)   Schedule of fees. The Impact Fee Administrator shall
determine the amount of the local water impact fees for residential uses
based on the type, or size, of the water meter, and for non-residential
uses, based on the size of the water meter using the following schedule:

 

  ---------------------- ------------
  Water Meter Size       Impact Fee
  One inch               $2,500
  Three-fourths inches   $1,300
  Two inches             $5,000
  ---------------------- ------------

 

      (2)   Redevelopment, reconstruction, change of use. In the event
of a redevelopment, reconstruction, or change of use from an existing
development, or use, the fee shall be the difference between what the
fee would be for the entire redevelopment, or reconstruction, project,
and what the fee would have been for the existing development, or use.
Existing development must be connected to the water system at the time
of redevelopment in order to apply this credit.

      (3)   Mixed use. If the proposed development includes a mix of the
residential land uses, and/or non-residential meter sizes that are
listed in the local impact fee schedule, the fee shall be determined by
adding up the local water impact fees that would be applicable for each
residential land use type, and/or non-residential meter size, as if it
was freestanding land use type.

      (4)   Fire suppression/low pressure. It is the intent of this
subchapter to base the local water impact fees on the typical usage in a
new building, or other facility. Extinguishing of fires is not a typical
usage; to allow adequate fire flow to sprinklers and internal hydrants
at some large, and at-risk properties, it may be necessary, for fire
protection purposes, to install a larger water meter than would be
necessary to meet day-to-day needs to that facility. In addition, a
larger meter may be required in areas of low water pressure than in
areas of normal water pressure for the same type of use. In those cases,
it is the policy of the city that the impact fees for water should be
based on the meter size needed by the facility for its typical usage,
without regard to fire-flow, or unusual pressure conditions.

      (5)   Irrigation. Any separate wastewater meter installed for
irrigation purposes only shall not be included in the calculation of the
local water impact fee.

      (6)   Master meters. In the event that a water master meter is
utilized for any development, including multi-family or mixed use, the
local water impact fees shall be based on the master meter size.

      (7)   Impact fee correction. If a local impact fee has been
calculated, and paid, based on a mistake or misrepresentation, it shall
be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a developer shall be refunded
by the city within 30 days after the city’s acceptance of the
recalculated amount, with accrued interest since the date of such
overpayment. Any amounts underpaid by the developer shall be paid to the
city within 30 days after the city’s acceptance of the recalculated
amount, with accrued interest since the date of such underpayment. In
the case of an underpayment to the city, the city shall not issue any
additional permits, or approvals, for the development for which the
local impact fee was previously paid until such underpayment is
corrected, and if amounts owed to the city are not paid within such
30-day period, the city may also rescind any permits issued in reliance
on the previous payment of such local impact fee, and refund such fee to
the then current owner of the land.

(Ord. 2019-13, passed - -; Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)

§ 50.31 IMPACT FEE EXCEPTIONS.

   (A)   The following types of developments, listed in division (B)
below, shall be exempted from payment of the local water impact fees.
Any claim for exemption shall be made not later than the time when the
applicant applies for the first water connection permit for the proposed
development that creates the obligation to pay the local impact fees.
Any claim for exemption not made at, or before, that time shall have
been waived.

   (B)   The City Council, or designee, shall determine the validity of
any claim for exemption pursuant to the standards set forth below:

      (1)   Reconstruction, expansion, or replacement of a
previously-existing residential unit that does not create any additional
residential units, or installation of a larger water meter;

      (2)   The replacement of a destroyed, or partially destroyed,
non-residential building, or structure, with a new non-residential, or
structure, of the same use as the original structure, and with no more
than a 5% increase in floor area from the original structure, and no
increase in the size, or number, of water meters;

      (3)   Construction of unoccupied accessory structures related to a
residential unit;

      (4)   Developments for which local impact fees for each type of
facility covered by this subchapter has previously been paid in an
amount that equals, or exceeds, the local impact fees that would be
required by this subchapter;

      (5)   Developments built by the federal government and the state;

      (6)   Public schools;

      (7)   Construction within a duly established redevelopment
district, or improvement district, for which the local impact fees have
specifically been waived by resolution of the City Council prior to
commencement of the improvements; and

      (8)   Such other economic, or community, development projects for
which the local impact fees have specifically been waived by resolution
of the City Council prior to commencement of the development.

(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)

§ 50.32 USE OF IMPACT FEE TRUST FUND.

   (A)   Trust Fund. A local Water Impact Fee Trust Fund is hereby
established for the purpose of ensuring that the impact fees collected,
pursuant to this subchapter, are designated for the accommodation of
impacts reasonably attributable to new development that paid the local
impact fees.

   (B)   Trust Fund management. All local impact fees collected by the
city pursuant to this subchapter shall be promptly deposited into the
local Water Impact Fee Trust Fund as appropriate. The Impact Fee Trust
Fund shall be maintained in interest bearing accounts. Monies in the
Trust Fund shall be considered to be spent in the order collected, on a
first-in/first-out basis. These funds shall contain only local water
fees collected pursuant to this subchapter, plus any interest which may
accrue from time to time on each such fund.

   (C)   Trust Fund limitations. The following limitations shall apply
to the use, and expenditure, of local impact fees collected, and
deposited, in the trust funds:

      (1)   Each local impact fee imposed pursuant to this subchapter
may be assessed, collected, and expended only for the planning, design,
and construction of new water facilities, or of capital improvements to
existing water facilities that expand the system’s capacity, or for the
recoupment of prior capital improvements to water facilities that
created capacity available to serve new development;

      (2)   The local water impact fees may be pledged to the payment of
bonds issued by the city to finance water capital improvements, or water
facilities for which the local impact fees may be imposed;

      (3)   No local impact fee shall be assessed for, or expended for,
the operation, or maintenance, of any water facility, or for the
construction, or improvement, of water facilities that do not create
additional capacity;

      (4)   No monies from the Trust Fund shall be spent for periodic,
or routine, maintenance, rehabilitation, or replacement of any facility
of any type, or to cure deficiencies in capital water facilities
existing on the effective date of this subchapter; and

      (5)   Monies, as described in § 50.33.

(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)

§ 50.33 REFUNDS.

   (A)   When refunds are due. The city shall refund the portion of
collected development local water impact fees, including the accrued
interest, that has not been expended seven years from the date the fees
were paid. The refund shall be made on a pro rata basis, and shall be
paid in full not later than 90 days after the date certain upon which
the refund becomes due. Interest paid shall be based on a 4% annual
rate.

   (B)   Refund notice. When due, a refund shall be paid to the present
owner of the property that was subject of new development, and against
which the fee was assessed and collected. Notice of the right to a
refund, including the amount of the refund and the procedure for
applying for, and receiving, the refund, shall be sent, or served, in
writing to the present owners of the property no later than 30 days
after the date on which the refund becomes due. The sending by regular
mail of the notices to all present owners of record shall be sufficient
to satisfy the requirement of notice.

   (C)   Refund payment. The refund shall be made on a pro rata basis,
and shall be paid in full no later than 90 days after the date certain
upon which the refund becomes due.

   (D)   Notice of refund rights. At the time of payment of the local
water impact fee under this subchapter, the Impact Fee Administrator
shall provide the applicant paying such fees with written notice of
those circumstances under which refunds of such fees will be made.
Failure to deliver such written notice shall not invalidate any
collection of any impact fee under this subchapter.

(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)

§ 50.34 APPEALS.

   (A)    Any determination made by an official of the city charged with
the administration of any part of this subchapter may be appealed to the
City Council by filing with the City Clerk-Treasurer within ten days of
the date of the determination being appealed:

      (1)   A written notice of appeal on a form provided by the city;

      (2)   A written explanation of why the appellant feels that a
determination was in error; and

      (3)   An appeal fee established by the city, if any.

   (B)   (1)    The City Council shall promptly fix a time, and place,
for hearing the appeal, and the City Clerk-Treasurer shall mail notice
of the hearing to the appellant at the address given in the notice of
appeal by first-class mail, postage prepaid.

      (2)   The hearing shall be conducted at the time, and place,
stated in such notice given by the City Council. The determination of
the City Council shall be final.

(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)

§ 50.35 CAPITAL PLAN; LEVEL OF SERVICE STANDARDS.

   (A)   Plan adoption.

      (1)   The water and wastewater impact fee report prepared by
McClelland Consulting Engineers, and any and all amendments, is hereby
approved, adopted by reference, and incorporated herein as if set out in
full as a capital improvement plan pursuant to A.C. § 14-56-103 for
water and sewer development impact fees.

      (2)   The capital water facilities to be financed by the water
impact fees shall be those facilities identified in the capital plan and
level of service standards, as presented in the study prepared by
McClelland Engineering, as adopted in division (A)(1) above, by the City
Council, and used in the independent fee calculation study. In this
regard, the applicable sections of such study, and letter, are hereby
adopted as the official capital plan and level of services of the city
water system.

   (B)   Plan revisions. Said plan in division (A) above, and standards,
may be revised from time to time by resolution of the City Council. To
this end, periodically the Mayor, or engineers hired by the city, may
present to the City Council a proposed capital improvements program for
the city capital water facilities, and such capital improvements program
shall assign monies from the Trust Fund, as appropriate, to specific
projects, and related expenses, for capital water facilities. Any
monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific projects
within such capital improvements program and not expended, shall be
retained in the Trust Fund subject to the refund provisions above.

(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019; Res. 2019-35, passed 7-22-2019)

§ 50.36 ADMINISTRATION.

   (A)   Impact Fee Administrator. The City Council shall assign to a
city employee the responsibilities of the Impact Fee Administrator
hereinabove set forth. Failure of the Council to make such assignment,
or in case of a lapse in such responsibility after assignment by the
Council, the responsibility shall be on the Clerk-Treasurer to fulfill
such responsibilities.

   (B)   Monies collected. All monies collected as local wastewater
impact fees, all funds held as local water impact fees in the
above-mentioned Trust Fund, all accounts created to hold the local water
impact fees, and all refunds of unexpended local wastewater impact fees
(including interest thereon) shall be by the duly elected/appointed City
Clerk-Treasurer.

(Ord. 2019-13, passed 7-22-2019)

CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PLAN

§ 50.50 INTENT.

   In compliance with the state’s Rules and Regulations Pertaining to
Public Water Systems, § VII.E, the City Council finds it necessary for
the health, safety, and welfare of the people served by the Water
Division of the City Utilities Department to adopt cross-connection
control standards which establish the requirements for the design,
construction, and maintenance of connections to the public water supply.
These standards are supplemental to, and do not supersede or modify, the
State Plumbing Code, and its latest revisions under which the city
operates. This subchapter pertains to commercial, and industrial,
establishment only. Single-family, residential dwelling units, unless
involved in commercial operations, are exempt from the requirements of
this subchapter, except where they fall under the preview of the State
Plumbing Code.

(Prior Code, § 10.28.01) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)

§ 50.51 PURPOSE.

   The purposes of this subchapter are:

   (A)   To provide for the protection of the public potable water
supply;

   (B)   To isolate at the service connection any actual, or potential,
pollution or contamination within the consumer’s premises; and

   (C)   To provide a continuous, systematic, and effective program of
cross-connection control.

(Prior Code, § 10.28.02) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)

§ 50.52 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.

   BACKFLOW. A hydraulic condition, caused by a difference in pressures,
in which non-potable water, or other fluids, flow into a potable water
system.

   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device, or means, to prevent backflow.

   DOUBLE-CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DC). A complete assembly meeting
applicable AWWA standards, and the requirements of the State Plumbing
Code consisting of two internally loaded, independently operating check
valves between two tightly closing, resilient-seated shutoff valves,
with four properly placed resilient-seated test cocks.

   REDUCED-PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (RP). A
complete assembly meeting applicable AWWA standards, and the
requirements of the State Plumbing Code consisting of a hydraulically
operating, mechanically independent differential relief valve located
between two independently operating, internally loaded check valves that
are located between two tightly closing, resilient-seated shutoff valves
with four properly placed resilient-seated test cocks.

(Prior Code, § 10.28.03) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)

§ 50.53 OPERATING CRITERIA.

   (A)   The City Water Department’s Cross-Connection Control Program
Handbook of Policies and Procedures is hereby incorporated into this
subchapter by reference. It is the primary responsibility of the water
purveyor, and/or the City Water Superintendent, to evaluate the hazards
inherent in supplying a consumer’s water system (for example, determine
whether solid, liquid, or gaseous pollutants, or contaminants, are, or
may be, handled on the consumer’s premises in such a manner as to
possibly permit contamination of the public water system). When a
hazard, or potential hazard, to the public water system is found on the
consumer’s premises, the consumer shall be required to install an
approved backflow prevention assembly at each public water service
connection to the premises in accordance with this subchapter
requirement. The type of device shall depend on the degree of hazard
involved. The degree of hazard shall be as described in AWWA Manual
M-14, or as described below. Where more than one type of protection is
possible, the actual method utilized shall be at the discretion of the
water purveyor, and/or the City Water Superintendent, after physical
inspection of the hazard.

   (B)   In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water
supply, the public water system shall be protected from the possibility
of backflow by a reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention assembly
(RP) at the service connection.

   (C)   In the case of any premises where there is water, or a
substance that would be objectionable but not hazardous to health if
introduced into the public water system, the public water system shall
be protected by an approved double-check valve assembly.

   (D)   In the case of any premises where there is any material
dangerous to health which is handled in such a fashion as to create an
actual, or potential, hazard to the public water system, the public
water system shall be protected by an approved reduced-pressure
principal backflow prevention assembly (RB).

   (E)   In case of any premises where there are “uncontrolled”
cross-connections, either actual or potential, the public water system
shall be protected by an approved reduced-pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly (RP) at the service connection.

   (F)   In the case of any premises where, because of security
requirements, or other prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible,
or impractical, to make a complete cross-connection survey, the public
water system shall be protected by the installation of an approved
reduced-pressure principal backflow prevention assembly (RB) at the
service connection.

(Prior Code, § 10.28.04) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)

§ 50.54 FACILITIES REQUIRING BACKFLOW PROTECTION.

   (A)   The following is a partial list of facilities which may require
reduced-pressure principal backflow prevention assemblies (RB) at the
service connection (requirements are based upon the degree of hazard
afforded the public potable water system):

      (1)   Automatic car washes;

      (2)   Auxiliary water systems;

      (3)   Exterminators;

      (4)   Facilities with boilers, or chilled water systems;

      (5)   Fire systems containing chemicals;

      (6)   Hospitals, medical clinics, dental clinics, health clinics,
sanitariums, morgues, mortuaries, autopsy facilities, and nursing and
convalescent homes;

      (7)   Irrigations systems and lawn sprinkler systems;

      (8)   Laboratories (industrial, commercial, photography, medical,
and school);

      (9)   Commercial laundries;

      (10)   Radiator and battery shops;

      (11)   Restricted, classified, or other facilities closed to
inspection;

      (12)   Sand, gravel, and concrete plants;

      (13)   Wastewater treatment plants, pump stations, and stormwater
pumping facilities;

      (14)   Marinas and dockside facilities;

      (15)   Commercial swimming pools;

      (16)   Commercial poultry farms, and commercial farms using
pesticides and herbicides;

      (17)   Establishments holdings livestock for sale or slaughter;
and

      (18)   Others (with suspected high hazards).

   (B)   The following is a partial list of facilities which may require
double-check valve assemblies:

      (1)   Apartment buildings;

      (2)   Beauty parlors and barber shops;

      (3)   Hotels and motels;

      (4)   Restaurants, cafeterias, fast-food marts, and other food
handling facilities;

      (5)   Tall buildings;

      (6)   Fire sprinkler systems (without chemicals); and

      (7)   Others (with suspected medium hazards).

(Prior Code, § 10.28.05) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)

§ 50.55 APPROVAL OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.

   Any backflow prevention assembly required herein shall be a type in
compliance with applicable AWWA standards, and the State Plumbing Code.

(Prior Code, § 10.28.06) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)

§ 50.56 NON-COMPLIANCE.

   The procedure for service to be discontinued (notice of consent to
enter) shall be:

   (A)   In emergency situations when the public potable water supply is
being contaminated, or is in immediate danger of contamination, the
water service will be discontinued by the water purveyor, and/or the
City Water Superintendent;

   (B)   No water service connection shall be installed on the premises
of any consumer unless the public potable water system is protected, as
required by this subchapter;

   (C)   Delivery of water to premises of any consumer may be
discontinued by the water purveyor, and/or the City Water
Superintendent, if any protective device required by this subchapter has
not been installed, or is defective, or has been removed or bypassed.
Discontinued water service shall not be resumed until conditions at the
consumer’s premises have been abated, or corrected, to the satisfaction
of the water purveyor, and/or Superintendent;

   (D)   Upon discovery of a violation of this subchapter, written
notice shall be given to the consumer. If violations are not corrected
by the date and time given to the consumer, the water supply will be
discontinued, and the violation may be referred to the City Council, or
administrative authority, for action; and

   (E)   For the purpose of making any inspections, or discharging the
duties imposed by this subchapter, the water purveyor, and/or the City
Water Superintendent, the State Health Department, and/or Plumbing
Inspector shall have the right to enter upon the premises of any
consumer. Each consumer, as a condition of the continued delivery to his
or her premises, of water from the public water supply, shall be
considered as having stated his or her consent to the entry upon his or
her premises of the water purveyor, and/or Water Superintendent, the
State Health Department, and/or plumbing inspection for the purpose
stated herein.

(Prior Code, § 10.28.07) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)

§ 50.57 OWNERSHIP.

   The consumer shall purchase, own, and maintain all backflow
prevention assemblies installed at the point of delivery to the
consumer’s water systems.

(Prior Code, § 10.28.08) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)

§ 50.58 INSTALLATION AND COSTS.

   Customers of the City Water Division requiring backflow prevention
devices shall pay all costs associated with installation of the
appropriate size, and type, of device under private contract. New
installations shall be completed prior to the “final” plumbing
inspection so that the device can be included as part of the inspection.
Assemblies shall be installed above ground in a location that is readily
accessible for maintenance and testing, and should be located not less
than 12 inches, nor more than 30 inches, above ground.

(Prior Code, § 10.28.09) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)

§ 50.59 TESTING AND MAINTENANCE.

   (A)   The consumer will be responsible for the annual testing of the
backflow prevention assembly by contract with a certified backflow
assembly tester. The consumer will annually furnish to the water
purveyor, and/or the city, with a certificate of such satisfactory
testing by the anniversary date of the installation of the assembly. In
instances where the water purveyor, and/or Plumbing Inspector, deems the
hazard to be great enough, testing may be required at more frequent
intervals, costs of which would be borne by the consumer. Any
maintenance fees required as a result of inspections, or testing, shall
be paid by the consumer through private contract. Records of
inspections, testing, or repairs shall be kept by the water purveyor,
and/or the City Water Superintendent, and made available to the State
Health Department.

   (B)   All new construction within the city shall be effective upon
passage of this subchapter. All existing consumer premises shall be in
compliance with this subchapter by October 6, 1997.

(Prior Code, § 10.28.10) (Ord. 97-10, passed 10-6-1997)

§ 50.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.

   (B)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, as described in § 50.05,
service will be reinstated only after all bills for service then due
have been paid, along with a penalty in the sum of $25.

(Ord. 2019-17, passed 8-26-2019)

CHAPTER 51: SEWER

Section

General Provisions

   51.01   Purpose

   51.02   Abbreviations

   51.03   Definitions

   51.04   Application; permit required

   51.05   Repair of public ways

   51.06   Materials and manner of construction

   51.07   Building sewers

   51.08   Public sewer use

   51.09   Surcharge

   51.10   Pretreatment

   51.11   Interceptors; traps

   51.12   Sewer service charge

   51.13   Summary of responsibilities

   51.14   Compliance monitoring

   51.15   Enforcement remedies

   51.16   Judicial enforcement remedies

   51.17   Protection from damage

   51.18   Pressure sewer system specifications

   51.19   Monthly rates and charges

   51.20   New connections to sewer system

   51.21   Treatment plants

Wastewater Impact Fee

   51.35   Impact fee

   51.36   Authority and applicability

   51.37   Definitions

   51.38   Legislative findings

   51.39   Intent

   51.40   Local impact fee imposed

   51.41   Impact fee exceptions

   51.42   Use of Impact Fee Trust Fund

   51.43   Refunds

   51.44   Appeals

   51.45   Capital plan; level of service standards

   51.46   Administration

 

   51.99   Penalty

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 51.01 PURPOSE.

   Pursuant to the general laws of the state, and the powers granted in
the charter of the city, the city does hereby declare its intention to
acquire, own, construct, equip, operate, and maintain within the city
limits a sewerage disposal plant, or plants, sewers, equipment, and
appurtenances necessary, useful, or convenient for a sewer system and
disposal area, including the reconstruction of such sewers as may
necessarily, or conveniently, be deemed proper by the city.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.01) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.02 ABBREVIATIONS.

  -------------- ---------
  Abbreviation   Meaning
  -------------- ---------

  -------------- --------------------------------------------------------
  Abbreviation   Meaning
  ADEQ           State Department of Environmental Quality
  ADHHS          State Department of Health and Human Services
  ANRC           State Natural Resources Commission
  CBOD5          Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand (for five days)
  C.F.R.         Code of Federal Regulations
  EPA            U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
  FEMA           Federal Emergency Management Agency
  gpd            Gallons per day
  mg/l           Milligrams per liter
  NPDES          National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
  POTW           Publicy-owned treatment works
  RCRA           Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
  STEG           Septic tank effluent gravity
  STEP           Septic tank effluent pumping
  TSS            Total suspended solids
  U.S.C.         United States Code
                 
  -------------- --------------------------------------------------------

 

(Prior Code, § 10.04.02) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.03 DEFINITIONS.

   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.

      ACT OR THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also
known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.

      APPLICANT. Property owner, or designated representative.

      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The State Department of Environmental Quality,
and the State Department of Health and Human Services, or the successors
thereof.

      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge sanitary waste, and other
drainage pipes inside, and five feet beyond the walls of the building,
and conveys it to the interceptor tank.

      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer privately owned, and constructed, in
conformance with the provision hereof, which connects the building drain
with the interceptor tank.

      CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND FIVE (CBOD5). The quantity
of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under
standard laboratory procedures for five days at 20°C, usually expressed
as a concentration of milligrams per liter (mg/l).

      CITY. The City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, its City Council, or its
authorized representative.

      COMMERCIAL. Includes all sewer users, except residential.

      COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL USER. A discharger into the POTW of
non-domestic wastewater.

      CONNECTION FEE. The fee charged by the city for inspection, and
connection, to the sewerage system.

      CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Mayor, or his or her authorized
representative.

      DRIP FIELD. An area of land used for the discharge of effluent
through polyethylene drip line and pressure emitters, after it has
received secondary treatment.

      ENGINEER. Engineer or Superintendent of the City Sewer System, or
his or her authorized assistants and inspectors.

      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or its authorized representative.

      GARBAGE.

         (a)   All putrescible waste, except sewage and body wastes,
including wastes accumulated of animals, food, or vegetable matter, and
including wastes that attend the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in,
or storing of, meat, fish, fowl, fruit, and vegetables, and shall
include all such wastes, or accumulations, of vegetable matter of
residences, restaurants, hotels, and places where food is prepared for
human consumption.

         (b)   The term GARBAGE shall not include recognized industrial
by-products, nor shall it include cans, boxes, cartons, paper, or other
objects which may, or may not, have food, or other organic material of
any nature in, or adhering to.

      GREASE TRAP. A device designed to retain grease from one to a
maximum of four fixtures.

      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes, as
distinct from sanitary sewage.

      INSPECTOR. Superintendent, or designated representative of the
city.

      INTERCEPTOR (CLARIFIER). A device designed, and installed, so as
to separate, and retain, deleterious, hazardous, or undesirable matter
from normal waste, and permit normal sewage, or liquid waste, to
discharge into the STEP or STEG interceptor tank.

      INTERCEPTOR TANK. See STEP INTERCEPTOR TANK and STEG INTERCEPTOR
TANK.

      LIVING UNIT EQUIVALENCY (LUE). Represents the basis for
establishing fees and calculating facility capacity, and is set as two
and one-half people per household, or 208 gallons per day of effluent
flow.

      MAY. Permissive.

      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A
permit issued to a POTW, or other discharger, pursuant to § 402 of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.

      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface water or groundwater.

      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm,
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents, or assigns. This definition includes all
federal, state, or local governmental entities.

      pH. The acidity, or alkalinity, of sanitary or industrial waste.
This is equal to the hydrogen ion concentration, as measured by the
logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions grams per
liter of solution.

      PLUMBING REGULATIONS. The State Plumbing Regulations (current
edition), as adopted by the State Board of Health, and the Standard
Plumbing Code of the Southern Building Code Congress International,
Incorporated (including all appendices thereto, including the
International Private Sewerage Disposal Code).

      POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, agricultural and
industrial wastes, and the characteristics of the wastewater (for
example, pH, TSS, turbidity, color, CBOD5, chemical oxygen demand (COD),
toxicity, or odor).

      PRETREATMENT.

         (a)   The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to (or in lieu of) introducing such
pollutants into the sewerage system.

         (b)   This reduction, or alteration, can be obtained by
physical, chemical, or biological processes; by process changes; or by
other means (except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants,
unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard).

      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive, or procedural,
requirement, other than a pretreatment standard, related to
pretreatment, and imposed on a user.

      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge
standards, categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.

      PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGE.
Prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances, as defined in
this subchapter.

      PUBLIC SEWER. A pipe, or conduit, for carrying sewage placed, or
accepted, by the city, consisting of all conduits, interceptor tanks,
pumping facilities service lines, system piping, and control panels, but
not including the building sewer which connects the building with the
interceptor tank.

      PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS.

         (a)   A treatment works, as defined by § 212 of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned by the city.

         (b)   This definition includes any devices, or systems, used in
the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of
sewage, or industrial, wastes of a liquid nature, and any conveyances
which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.

      QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL. A person holding a recognized written
certification from the appropriate state licensing board that governs
the discipline in which the service is being rendered.

      RESIDENTIAL. One, or more, rooms designed for occupancy by one
family, and with not more than one cooking facility.

      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage, and from which
storm, surface, and ground waters are reasonably prohibited.

      SEWAGE. A combination of the water carried human wastes, including
kitchen, bath, and laundry wastes, from residences, buildings,
institutions, establishments, or other places, together with such
groundwater infiltration, surface waters, or industrial waste, as may be
present.

      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.

      SEWAGE SYSTEM. The system of sanitary sewers, including components
for conveyance, treatment, and disposal of sewage within the city.

      SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating,
and disposing of sewage.

      SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. A monthly fee, established by the city,
charged to all users of the sewerage system.

      SHALL. Mandatory.

      SHREDDED GARBAGE. Waste from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food.

      SIGNIFICANT USER.

         (a)   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;

         (b)   A user that:

            1.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd, or more, of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contract
cooling, and boiler blowdown wastewater);

            2.   Contributes a process wastestream, which makes up 5%,
or more, of the average dry weather hydraulic, or organic capacity of
the POTW treatment plant; or

            3.   Is designated as such by the Control Authority on the
basis that it has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the
POTW’s operation, or for violating any pretreatment standard or
requirement.

         (c)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in
divison (b)2. has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the
POTW’s operation, or for violating any pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Control Authority may, at any time on its own
initiative, or in response to a petition received from a user (and in
accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6)) determine that
such user should not be considered a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.

      STANDARD CITY SPECIFICATIONS. The specifications, which are on
file in City Hall, to which all municipality-regulated construction
shall conform.

      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification
pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, issued by the
United States Office of Management and Budget.

      STATE. State of Arkansas.

      STEG INTERCEPTOR TANK. A septic tank (holding) structure which
gravity flows and contains effluent filters. The STEG TANK will be of a
design, and size (minimum 1,500 gallons) approved by the State
Department of Health and the city.

      STEP INTERCEPTOR TANK.

         (a)   A septic tank (holding) structure which contains
facilities for pumping effluent.

         (b)   The STEP TANK will be of a design, and size (minimum
1,500 gallons) approved by the State Department of Health and the city.

      STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm, and
surface, wastes and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes.

      SUPERINTENDENT. The designated representative of the city
responsible for the sewer system.

      SURCHARGE FOR STEP. An additional service charge above, and
beyond, the normal monthly charge that shall be assessed to the
significant users who discharge into the city system wastewater having
an average CBOD5 concentration in excess of 150 milligrams per liter, or
an average TSS concentration in excess of 150 milligrams per liter.

      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface, or are
in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are
removable by laboratory filtering.

      TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on
the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid,
and which is removable by laboratory filtering.

      TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant, or combination of pollutants,
listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by EPA under § 307 (33 U.S.C.
§ 1317) of the Act.

      USER. Any person, user, operator, owner, or customer who
contributes, or permits the contribution, of wastewater into the POTW.

      WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage
from residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and
manufacturing facilities, and institutions.

      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW which is
designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.

      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.

   (B)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, the
singular number includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.03) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.04 APPLICATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.

   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall make a connection to any
part of the sanitary sewer system of the city without first making an
application, and securing a permit therefor, and then only by using an
approved connection in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.

   (B)   (1)   Application for sewer connection permits shall be made,
in writing, to City Hall on a form provided, and prescribed, by the
city, and shall give the location of the property, septic tank, and
service line; street number of the building(s) to be connected; name of
the person; and statement as to whether or not the property to be
connected was, in the past, assessed for the construction of a sanitary
sewer onto which the applicant desires to connect, and such other
information, or plans, as may be required by the city.

      (2)   Application for a permit to connect to the system shall also
include an easement from the applicant, or user, as is required for
maintenance purposes, and payment of a fee, and/or deposit, as described
hereinafter.

   (C)   All permit applications must be signed by an authorized
signatory of the user, and contain the following certification
statement:

 

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware there are significant penalties for submitted false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations”.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

(Prior Code, § 10.04.04) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.05 REPAIR OF PUBLIC WAYS.

   Applicants shall agree to pay the cost of repairing streets, or
alleys, excavated for the purpose of making the sewer connections
covered by the permit, if not otherwise required as a part of a larger
city project. The city shall approve all street and alley cuts, and hold
the applicant responsible for maintenance for one year after the line
use has begun.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.06) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.06 MATERIALS AND MANNER OF CONSTRUCTION.

   (A)   All building sewer installations shall be constructed to
conform to the provisions of the State Plumbing Regulations, latest
edition, and the city’s sewer specifications. Connections within the
public right-of-way shall be made only by a licensed plumber of the
state, and be witnessed by the City Inspector. Proof of a valid permit
will be required prior to construction.

   (B)   A separate, and independent, electrical circuit shall be
provided for every STEP interceptor tank.

   (C)   Existing building sewers and building plumbing may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they meet all requirements of
the applicable Plumbing Code.

   (D)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the
pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform
to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the state and city. In the absence
of code provisions, or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in the current addition of the Plumbing Code and
Building Code, adopted by the city, shall apply.

   (E)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
interceptor tank, sanitary sewerage carried by such building drain shall
be lifted by an approved means, and discharged to the building sewer,
and the property owner shall provide a backwater valve to prevent
backflow of sewage.

   (F)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts,
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff,
or groundwater, to a building sewer or building drain, which, in turn,
is connected directly, or indirectly, to a public sanitary sewer.

   (G)   The connection of the building sewer into the interceptor tank
shall conform to the requirements of the applicable Plumbing Code and
city specifications. All such connections shall be made essentially
gastight and watertight, and verified by visual inspection.

   (H)   The applicant for the sewer permit shall notify the City
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection, and
connection to the interceptor tank. The connection, and testing, of the
interceptor tank shall be made in the presence of the City Inspector, or
his or her representative. After installation, the STEP tank shall be
tested for water-tightness to include all connections to the tank. Any
leakage shall be eliminated, or the tank replaced.

   (I)   All excavations for sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to a condition
equal to that previously existing.

   (J)   Plumbing within newly constructed houses, buildings, or
structures shall be so oriented (unless otherwise approved by the city
in writing) as to allow the building sewer to stem from the side closest
to the system piping.

   (K)   An interceptor tank, control panel, and proper pump, and
piping, shall be installed so that each parcel has independent sewerage
facilities.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.07) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.07 BUILDING SEWERS.

   (A)   Materials and workmanship for building sewer construction shall
meet the standards established by the city, as modified from time to
time, or the applicable provisions of the current edition of the State
Plumbing Regulations, and in conformance to the city sewer system
regulations. Where in conflict, the more stringent standard shall apply.
No backfill shall be placed until the City Inspector has inspected the
work.

   (B)   There shall be a minimum horizontal separation of ten feet
between water and sewer pipeline. In the event that this limitation
cannot be met, the applicant will proceed only under special permit from
the city, and under the direction of the City Inspector. When
circumstances force the installer to cross potable waterlines and gas
lines with sewer lines, the sewer lines shall be installed under the
water or gas lines, and as nearly possible to a 90-degree angle. The
bottom of the water piping at all points shall be at least 18 inches
above the top of the sewer piping. Whenever the vertical separation
between water and sewer lines is less than 18 inches, or if the water
line is below the sewer line, either the water or the sewer line must be
surrounded by encasement pipe.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.08) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.08 PUBLIC SEWER USE.

   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or
permit to be deposited, in any unsanitary manner on public, or private,
property within the city limits, or in any area under the jurisdiction
of the city, any sewerage, human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.

   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within
the city limits, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any
sanitary sewerage, industrial waste, or other polluted waters, except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with this
subchapter, and all applicable state, and federal, laws and regulations.

   (C)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process water to any
sanitary sewer. Any existing discharge of such waters into sanitary
sewers shall be immediately discontinued.

    (D)   Stormwater, and all other unpolluted drainage, shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm
sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling
water, or unpolluted process waters, may be discharged, on approval of
the city, to a storm sewer or natural outlet; provided, that all state,
and federal, laws and regulations are met.

   (E)   No wastewater generated by a development located in the
100-year floodplain shall be transported, or treated, by city-owned
facilities, except that service may be provided to:

      (1)   Areas of existing development in a floodplain;

      (2)   Commercial, or public, facilities which, by nature, must be
located in a floodplain;

      (3)   Areas of projected growth if an environmental information
document demonstrates that the proposed development will be consistent
with the floodplain management criteria for flood-prone areas (44 C.F.R.
§ 60.3) of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and will have
no significant impacts on natural functions, and values, of the
floodplain; or

      (4)   An area of projected growth if an environmental impact
statement demonstrates that there is no practicable alternative to such
growth, that such growth will be consistent with the floodplain
management criteria for floodprone areas (44 C.F.R. § 60.3) of FEMA, and
that the benefits of such growth outweigh its environmental costs.

   (F)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any of
the following described water, or wastes, to any public sanitary sewer:

      (1)   Raw sewage not first treated through an interceptor tank;

      (2)   Explosive, or inflammable, liquids and gases, or any liquid
or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;

      (3)   Any water, or waste, which contains more than 100 parts per
million by eight, of fat, oil or grease, oil and sludge from service
stations, garages, repair shops, machine shops, cleaning establishments
or other industries, or establishments;

      (4)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other
flammable, or explosive, liquid, solid, gas, petroleum, coal tar,
vegetable and mineral oils and products, and their derivatives and
wastes, except sewage, as defined in § 51.03;

      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal,
glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastic, wood, paunch, stable or barn
manure, offal from slaughterhouses, dead animals or other solid, or
viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers,
or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;

      (6)   Any waters, or wastes, having a pH lower than 5.5, higher
than 9.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage, or hazard, to structures, equipment, and personnel of the
sewerage works;

      (7)   Any waters, or waste, containing a toxic, or poisonous,
substance in sufficient quantity to injure, or interfere, with any
sewerage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment
facilities. Among substances that may be toxic to sewer systems, humans,
and animals are the following: copper; chromium; cyanide; lead; zinc;
arsenic; nickel; phenol detergents; wastes from nuclear fission; paints,
or waste products from paint manufacturers, or acids; alkalis, or other
corrosive liquids; gases; or substances of sufficient strength to damage
sewers, manholes, pumping stations, or treatment plant units.

         (a)   Specifically, the following limitations on discharges to
the city sewer will be observed. The following pollutant limits are
established to protect against pass through and interference. No person
shall discharge wastewater containing in excess of the following
instantaneous maximum allowable discharge limits, except by permit from
the Control Authority:

  ---------------------- ---------------------
  Pollutant Discharged   Amount of Discharge
  ---------------------- ---------------------

  ---------------------- ---------------------
  Pollutant Discharged   Amount of Discharge
  Arsenic                0.1 mg/l
  Cadmium                0.02 mg/l
  Chromium               0.48 mg/l
  Copper                 0.23 mg/l
  Cyanide                0.01 mg/l
  Lead                   0.1 mg/l
  Mercury                0.0002 mg/l
  Nickel                 0.02 mg/l
  Silver                 0.024 mg/l
  Zinc                   0.1 mg/l
                         
  ---------------------- ---------------------

 

         (b)   All concentrations for metallic substances are for
“total” metal, unless indicated otherwise. The Control Authority may
impose mass limitations in addition to, or in place of, the
concentration-based limitations above.

         (c)   The city may revise, or modify, the local limits as
required, or if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented
in this subchapter, or to ensure compliance with federal, state, or
local law.

      (8)   Any noxious, or malodorous, gas or substance capable of
creating a public nuisance, or live steam, exhaust steam, or water
having a temperature above 1,400F;

      (9)   Any liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater which,
either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into
the sewers for maintenance or repair;

      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by
the treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye, wastes, and
vegetable tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the
treatment plant’s effluent, thereby violating the city’s NPDES permit;

      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes,
except in compliance with applicable federal, or state, regulations, and
approved by the Control Authority;

      (12)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the
pretreatment of industrial wastes;

      (13)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Control Authority; and

      (14)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances
which may cause excessive foaming in the POTW.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.09) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -) Penalty, see § 51.99

§ 51.09 SURCHARGE.

   (A)   Any significant user generating discharge which exhibits none
of the characteristics of wastes prohibited herein, but which has an
average concentration of total suspended solids (TSS), or carbonaceous
biochemical oxygen demand five (CBOD5) in excess of 150 mg/l during a
24-hour period, may be required to obtain a discharge permit. Such
discharge may, however, be accepted by the POTW for treatment if:

      (1)   The user agrees to payment of a surcharge over, and above,
published sewer rates, as provided herein; and

      (2)   The discharge is amendable to treatment such that when it
leaves the sewage treatment plant to be discharged, the discharge does
not exceed, or cause the total discharge to exceed, the standards set by
federal, and state, agencies having jurisdiction.

   (B)   Prior to imposition of a surcharge, the user shall be notified,
in writing, that the discharge exceeds the maximum limits, as
established in this subchapter.

   (C)   If, after 60 days have elapsed from the date of notice, the
quality of the waste has not been brought within the maximum allowable
limits, the user must enter into a surcharge agreement with the city.

   (D)   The surcharge will be adjusted on billings for the month
following submission of new data, but not less frequently than
quarterly.

   (E)   Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand five (CBOD5) and total
suspended solids (TSS) values will be determined for standard values
established by the Control Authority for various industries having
normal pretreatment facilities for that industry. The Control Authority
shall sample the discharge from a user to determine accurate values of
CBOD5 and TSS being discharged for the purpose of determining a
surcharge. Analysis performed by a user shall be under the direction of
the Control Authority, and performed by an approved qualified
laboratory. Reports submitted to the Control Authority shall contain a
statement that the samples collected, and values determined, are based
on a 24-hour composite representative of the user’s flow.

   (F)   All sampling, and analyses, of the waste characteristics shall
be performed in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136; approved methods,
and all such costs, shall be borne by the user.

   (G)   The volume of flow used in computing surcharge shall be based
upon metered water consumption, as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the city’s business office. In the event that a
person discharging waste into the city sewerage system produces evidence
to the Control Authority demonstrating that a portion of the total
amount of water used for all purposes is not discharged into the POTW, a
separate meter, or meters, or other approved flow measuring device, may
be installed at the user’s expense, upon his or her request, to measure
only that portion of the total flow being discharged into the city
sewerage system. If a surcharge is assessed by the city, it shall be
shown separately on the monthly billing.

   (H)   (1)   Any person discharging industrial waste into the sanitary
sewers of the city who procures any part of all of the user’s water
supply from sources other than the city, all, or part, of which is
discharged into the sanitary sewer, shall install, and maintain, at the
user’s expense, water meters of the type approved by the city for the
purpose of determining the proper volume of flow to be used in computing
sewer service charges.

      (2)   Such meter will be read monthly, and tested for accuracy
when deemed necessary by the city. Where it can be shown that a portion
of the water measured by the aforesaid meter, or meters, does not enter
the sanitary sewer system of the city, then the user may install
additional approved meters at the user’s expense in such a manner as to
measure the quantity of water actually entering the sanitary sewer
system from the property of such user, and the quantity of wastewater
used to determine the sewer service charge, and surcharge, shall be the
quantity of wastewater actually entering the sewage system, as so
determined.

   (I)   Computation of surcharge shall be based on the following: S=V *
8.34*[X (CBOD5 - 150) + Y (TSS - 150)], where:

         (1)   “S” is the surcharge in dollars for the billing period;

         (2)   “V” is the water consumption in millions of gallons
during the billing period;

         (3)   “8.34" is the weight of water in pounds per gallon;

         (4)   “X” is the unit charge in dollars per pound for CBOD5 in
effect at the time of the billing;

         (5)   “Y” is the unit charge in dollars per pound for TSS in
effect at the time of the billing;

         (6)   “CBOD5" is the concentration of carbonaceous biochemical
oxygen demand five in milligrams per liter; and

         (7)   “TSS” is the concentration of total suspended solids in
milligrams per liter.

   (J)   (1)   The Control Authority reserves the right to review, and
approve, any water, or industrial waste, entering the city’s sewerage
system, or proposed to be discharged into the system, having an average
daily flow greater than 5% of the design flow capacity of the plant
which will treat the waste.

      (2)   In the event the city’s measurement discloses such flow in
excess of such capacity, the city shall be under no obligation to
receive such flow in excess of 5% of designed capacity, and the city’s
published rate shall not apply to such excess. A user affected hereby
shall be promptly notified of such determination by the Control
Authority. A special contract, at the city’s option, may be made with
the user to accommodate such excess flow.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.10) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.10 PRETREATMENT.

   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater
treatment, as necessary, to comply with this subchapter, and shall
achieve compliance with all pretreatment standards, local limits, and
the prohibitions set forth herein within the time limitations specified
by the EPA, the state, or the Control Authority, whichever is more
stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans
describing such facilities, and operating procedures, shall be submitted
to the Control Authority for review, and shall be acceptable by the
Control Authority before such facilities are constructed. The review of
such plans, and operating procedures, shall in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to
produce a discharge acceptable to the Control Authority under the
provisions of this subchapter.

   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.

      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Control Authority may require
users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate
that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers,
relocate, and/or consolidate, points of discharge, separate sewage
wastestreams from industrial wastestreams, and such other conditions as
may be necessary to protect the POTW, and determine the user’s
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.

      (2)   The Control Authority may require any person discharging
into the POTW to install, and maintain, on his or her property, and at
his or her expense, a suitable storage, and flow control, facility to
ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater permit may be issued solely
for flow equalization.

      (3)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the Control Authority, they are necessary for the
proper handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and
oil, or sand; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
residential users.

      (4)   Any water, or wastes, containing CBOD5 greater than 150
mg/l, or TSS is greater than 150 mg/l, shall be subject to a surcharge
in addition to the standard sewer rate charges.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.11) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.11 INTERCEPTORS; TRAPS.

   (A)   Oil, grease, and sand interceptors, or grease traps, shall be
provided by hotels, restaurants, cafes, lunch counters, cafeterias, bars
and clubs, hospitals, factories, or school kitchens, filling and service
stations, laundries, processing plants, metal fabrication plants, and
other places when they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes, sand, and other harmful ingredients, except that such
interceptors, or traps, shall not be required for private living
quarters, or dwelling units.

   (B)   All interceptors, or traps, shall be of a type, design, and
capacity, as described by the applicable provisions of the State
Plumbing Regulations, latest edition, and approved by the City
Inspector, and shall be located so as to be readily, and easily,
accessible for cleaning and inspection.

   (C)   Grease, oil interceptors, and grease traps shall be constructed
of impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt, and extreme,
changes in temperatures. They shall be of substantial construction,
watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers which, when bolted
in place, shall be watertight.

   (D)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors, or
grease traps, shall be maintained by the user, at his or her expense, in
continuously efficient operation at all times. The Control Authority
shall ascertain that all interceptors, or traps, are cleaned, and/or
replaced at least once every month, or as needed.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.12) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.12 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE.

   (A)   Sewer service charges, and assessment, shall be established by
ordinance. The monthly rates for sewerage system use shall be billed to
each user from the city. City ordinance has established the date as the
fifteenth of the month, when such rates first become payable.

   (B)   Sewerage system charges shall become due, and payable, on the
fixed date. Unpaid sewerage system service charges due from users of the
sewerage system shall become delinquent.

   (C)   All payments and collections of sewer service charges under
this subchapter shall be deposited in the Operation, Maintenance, and
Repair Revenue Fund (OM&R) of the city. The OM&R Revenue Fund may be
used for, but not limited to, the payment of reasonable administration
costs, professional services, fees, and expenses of collection of the
charges, and connection fees, imposed by this subchapter.

   (D)   The city shall disconnect sewer utility service in accordance
with §§ 50.01 through 50.12.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.15) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.13 SUMMARY OF RESPONSIBILITIES.

   (A)   The user shall (as a minimum):

      (1)   Apply for service in writing;

      (2)   Pay applicable city connection permit, and inspection, fees
prior to installation, as set by city ordinance, and § 51.19;

      (3)   Pay for a STEP system on each lot by depositing, in advance
of installation, an estimated amount with the city for all costs,
including engineering, construction management, excavation,
installation, materials, backfill, street repair, and overhead, as
determined by the city;

      (4)   Provide a permanent, electrical “rough-in” for a dedicated
electrical circuit at a location designated by the City Inspector, if
requested;

      (5)   Notify the City Inspector a minimum of two weeks prior to
the need for actual installation;

      (6)   Grant the city an easement in advance of installation to
facilitate pumping and maintenance of tank(s);

      (7)   Be responsible for expenses associated with the proper
maintenance and repair of the tank, pump package, and sewer discharge
line from the building to the city’s collection line; and

      (8)   Pay monthly user fees, as set by city ordinance.

   (B)   The city shall:

      (1)   Ensure tap of sewer main at an appropriate location;

      (2)   Respond to alarms on the pump package;

      (3)   Perform repairs to pump packages, as needed, at the owner’s
expense;

      (4)   Perform inspection and sampling, as appropriate; and

      (5)   Pump the tank at appropriate intervals, at the owner’s
expense.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.16) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -; Ord. 2021-02, passed
2-22-2021)

§ 51.14 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.

   (A)   Right of entry; inspection and sampling.

      (1)   The Control Authority shall have the right to enter the
property of any user to determine whether the user is complying with all
requirements of this subchapter, and any discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder.

      (2)   Users shall allow the Control Authority ready access to all
parts of the property for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.

      (3)   If a user has security measures in force that require proper
identification and clearance before entry into his or her property, the
user shall make necessary arrangements with his or her security guards
so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, the Control
Authority will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of
performing specific responsibilities.

      (4)   The Control Authority shall have the right to set up on the
user’s property, or require installation of, such devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling, and/or metering, of the user’s
operations.

      (5)   The Control Authority may require the user to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling, and
monitoring, equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe, and
proper, operating condition by the user at his or her own expense. All
devices used to measure flow and quality shall be calibrated at least
annually by a certified technician to ensure their accuracy. Calibration
records shall be made available to the Control Authority upon request.

      (6)   Any temporary, or permanent, obstruction to safe, and easy,
access to the facility to be inspected, and/or sampled, shall be
promptly removed by the user at the written, or verbal, request of the
Control Authority, and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such
access shall be borne by the user.

      (7)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Control Authority access
to the user’s property shall be a violation of this subchapter.

   (B)   Search warrants. If the Control Authority has been refused
access to the property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
subchapter, or that there is a need to inspect, and/or sample, as part
of a routine inspection and sampling program of the Control Authority
designed to verify compliance with this subchapter, or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety,
and welfare of the community, then the Control Authority may seek
issuance of a search warrant from a court of proper jurisdiction.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.17) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.15 ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.

   (A)   Administrative enforcement remedies.

      (1)   Notice of violation. When the Control Authority finds that a
user has violated (or continues to violate) any provision of this
subchapter, a discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard, or requirement, the Control Authority shall serve
upon such user either an informal warning, or a written notice of
violation. Within five business days of the receipt of the notice of
violation, an explanation of the violation, and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific
required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the Control
Authority. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before, or after, receipt of the
notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority
of the Control Authority to take any action, including emergency actions
or any other enforcement action, without first issuing an informal
warning, or a notice of violation.

      (2)   Consent orders. The Control Authority may enter into consent
orders, assurance of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with any user responsible for non-compliance.
Such documents will include specific action to be taken by the user to
correct the non-compliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to this subchapter, and shall be
judicially enforceable.

      (3)   Show cause hearing. The Control Authority may order a user
which has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
subchapter a discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the Control
Authority, and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time, and
place, for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for
such action, and a request that the user show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall
be served personally, or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested), at least five business days prior to the hearing. Such
notice shall be served on a representative of the user who meets the
criteria of an authorized signatory. A show cause hearing shall not be a
bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
user.

      (4)   Compliance orders. When the Control Authority finds that a
user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
subchapter, a discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard, or requirement, the Control Authority may issue
an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the
user come into compliance within a specified time.

         (a)   If the user does not come into compliance within the time
provided, water and sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are
installed, and properly operated. Compliance ordinances may also contain
other requirements to address the non-compliance, including additional
self-monitoring, and management practices designed to minimize the
amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer.

         (b)   A compliance order may not extend the deadline for
compliance established for a national pretreatment standard or
requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability
for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.

      (5)   Cease and desist orders.

         (a)   When the Control Authority finds that a user has violated
(or continues to violate) any provision of this subchapter, a discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Control Authority may issue an order to the user directing him or her to
cease, and desist, all such violations, and directing the user to:

            1.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and

            2.   Take such appropriate remedial, or preventive, action
as may be needed to properly address a continuing, or threatened,
violation, including halting operations, and/or terminating the
discharge.

         (b)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
user.

   (B)   Administrative fines.

      (1)   Violation of the subchapter. When the Control Authority
finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision
of this subchapter, a discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or
any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the Control Authority
may fine such user in an amount not to exceed $1,000. Such fines shall
be assessed on a per violation, per day basis. The Control Authority may
add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as
notices and orders, to the fine.

      (2)   Issuance of the fine. Issuance of an administrative fine
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.

   (C)   Emergency suspensions. The Control Authority may immediately
suspend a user’s discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever
such suspension is necessary to stop an actual, or threatened, discharge
which reasonably appears to present, or cause, an imminent, or
substantial, endangerment to the health, or welfare, of persons. The
Control Authority may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.

      (1)   Stopping contribution. Any user notified of a suspension of
his or her discharge shall immediately stop, or eliminate, his or her
contribution. In the event of a user’s failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the Control Authority shall take
such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the
sewer connection or water service, to prevent, or minimize, damage to
the POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The
Control Authority may allow the user to recommence his or her discharge
when the user has demonstrated, to the satisfaction of the Control
Authority, that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the
termination proceedings in this subchapter are initiated against the
user.

      (2)   Severance notice. If necessary, severance of the sewer
connection, or water service, may occur without notice.

      (3)   Responsibility. A user that is responsible, in whole or in
part, for any discharge presenting imminent endangerment, shall submit a
detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution, and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence,
to the Control Authority within five business days. Nothing in this
section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to any
emergency suspension under this section.

   (D)   Termination of discharge. Any user that violates the conditions
in this subchapter is subject to discharge termination. Such user will
be notified of the proposed termination of his or her discharge, and be
offered an opportunity to show cause why the proposed action should not
be taken. Exercise of this option by the Control Authority shall not be
a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
user.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.18) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.16 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.

   (A)   Injunctive relief. When the Control Authority finds that a user
has violated (or continues to violate) any provision of this subchapter,
a discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement, the Control Authority may petition the
appropriate court through the Control Authority’s attorney for the
issuance of a temporary, or permanent, injunction, as appropriate, which
restrains, or compels, the specific performance of the discharge permit,
order, or other requirement imposed by this subchapter on activities of
the user. The Control Authority may also seek such other action as is
appropriate for legal, and/or equitable, relief, including a requirement
for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against a user.

   (B)   Civil penalties.

      (1)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court
shall take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not
limited to, the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude
and duration, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation,
corrective actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and
any other factor as justice requires.

      (2)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.

   (C)   Cost recovery. The Control Authority may recover reasonable
attorney’s fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with
enforcement activities, including sampling, and monitoring, expenses,
and the cost of any actual damages, or fines, incurred by the Control
Authority.

   (D)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this
subchapter are not exclusive. The Control Authority may take any, all,
or any combination of these actions against a non-compliant user.
Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance
with the Control Authority’s enforcement response plan. However, the
Control Authority may take other action against any user, including, but
not limited to, misdemeanor and felony fines, and imprisonment when the
circumstances warrant.

   (E)   Right of revision. The city reserves the right to establish, by
ordinance or in discharge permits, more stringent standards, or
requirements, on discharges to the POTW.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.19) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -)

§ 51.17 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.

   No person shall break, damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance, or equipment, which is a part of the sewerage
works. Offenders, or their adult guardians, will be required to fully
reimburse the city for repair costs required.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.20) (Ord. 2007-17, passed - -) Penalty, see § 51.99

§ 51.18 PRESSURE SEWER SYSTEM SPECIFICATIONS.

   The pressure sewer system specifications, as reviewed, and
recommended, by the City Sewer Committee, which are attached hereto, are
hereby adopted, and shall apply to the installation of all pressure
sewer systems within the city. No builder, developer, or individual
shall receive a permit for construction, installation, or placement of a
pressure sewer system in the city until all construction is fully
compliant with this subchapter, and with the approved pressure sewer
system specifications.

(Prior Code, § 10.04.21) (Ord. 2006-16, passed - -)

§ 51.19 MONTHLY RATES AND CHARGES.

   (A)   Rates. The following monthly rates and charges, which the City
Council hereby finds, and declares, are fair, reasonable, and necessary,
minimum rates be, and they are hereby, fixed as rates to be charged for
sewer services to be rendered by the city.

 

Type of Charge

Amount to be Charged

Commercial Users

Base rate

$55 per month

Residential Users

Base rate

$50 per month

 

   (B)   Sewer connection fee. There shall be a connection fee equal to
the actual cost to the city, or at a minimum of $500, for every sewer
user who connects to the sewer facilities of the system. Said connection
fee shall be to cover the city’s cost of the installation for the sewer
connection. The city, by and through the Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee,
shall have the right to reduce or waive the connection fee in the
instances where:

      (1)   The customer has borne the cost of the installation of the
public infrastructure to which the sewer connection is being sought;

      (2)   In instances where the connection fee sought is for a
property owner within the municipal property owner’s improvement
district who is subject to the levy of annual assessments to pay off the
bonds that financed the initial purchase and installation of the system;
and

      (3)   In other such situations where good causes exists to waive
or reduce the sewer connection fee in order to reflect the actual cost
of the connection.

   (C)   RV parks. Any customer operating a recreational vehicle park,
or RV park, shall have a master sanitary sewer meter owned and
maintained by the city. Monthly billing for an RV park customer shall be
based on the volume of sewer service provided, with the monthly cost
being a $50 charge per living unit equivalency unit (LEU) used during
the monthly period as reflected by the master sanitary sewer meter. An
LEU shall be the equivalent of a sanitary sewer user that disposes of
208 gallons per day of wastewater into the city’s sewer system.

   (D)   Connection. None of the sewer facilities or services afforded
by the system shall be furnished without a charge being made therefore
to the customer. The sewer rates established and set forth herein went
into effect upon the effective date of this section. The city hereby
authorizes the Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, in accordance with A.C. §
14-235-301 et seq., to order any property owner within 300 feet of a
public sanitary sewer line to connect the city’s sanitary sewer system
if it is determined that the public health will be promoted by requiring
such connection.

(Ord. 2021-02, passed 2-22-2021)

§ 51.20 NEW CONNECTIONS TO SEWER SYSTEM.

   (A)   The city’s sewer plants 1 and 2 are reaching their maximum
capacity; therefore, any new connections to the city sewer system must
be closely monitored.

   (B)   The City Council has determined that it is in the public
interest, and welfare, that all new connections to the city sewer system
be closely monitored, and require prior review, and approval, by the
City Water and Sewer Committees, and before any permit, or plat, is
approved, which would allow connection to the city sewer system.

(Ord. 2018-12, passed 5-8-2018)

§ 51.21 TREATMENT PLANTS.

   (A)   Accepted. The sewer system dedicated by the district to the
city should be, and the same is, hereby accepted, and approved, by the
city, subject to the satisfactory completion of the items, or issues,
referenced in Table VI of the Table of Special Ordinances within this
code, within 60 days of the passage of this section.

(Prior Code, § 10.12.01)

   (B)   Authorization.

      (1)   The Mayor, for, and on behalf of, the city, is hereby
authorized, and directed, to do any, and all, things necessary to effect
the execution, and delivery, of the transfer of the sewer system to the
city.

      (2)   The Mayor is hereby authorized, and directed, for, and on
behalf of, the city, to execute all papers, documents, certificates, and
other instruments that may be required for the carrying out of such
authority, or to evidence the exercise thereof.

(Prior Code, § 10.12.03)

(Ord. 2008-3, passed - -)

WASTEWATER IMPACT FEE

§ 51.35 IMPACT FEE.

   A local wastewater impact fee is hereby established for the city’s
wastewater system for in-city facilities, or improvements, that meet
in-city demand, hereinafter referred to as the “system”.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 51.36 AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY.

   (A)   Authority. This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the authority
granted to the city by the A.C. § 14-56-103, and other relevant laws,
and judicial interpretations, of the state.

   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to
all of the territory within the city’s wastewater service area,
including the corporate limits of the city, any unincorporated area of
the county served by the system, and all future additions to said areas.

   (C)   Development fees. The following types of development shall be
required to pay a local wastewater impact fee:

      (1)   New, and existing, developments seeking a new connection to
the city’s wastewater system, resulting in increased demand from
wastewater facilities. This shall not apply to an existing development
that is connecting to the wastewater system in order to eliminate an
individual wastewater source; and

      (2)   Non-residential, or residential, redevelopments seeking a
larger capacity, or an additional wastewater meter.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 51.37 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.

   CAPITAL WASTEWATER FACILITIES.

      (1)   The city’s wastewater distribution system, pumps, any
treatment facilities, lift lines, lift stations, interceptors,
buildings, tanks, improvements to land, land, and related equipment,
used to provide city wastewater services, as defined in the study.

      (2)   The costs of CAPITAL WASTEWATER FACILITIES also include the
costs of related planning, and design, for these facilities.

   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.

      (1)   A certificate issued by the city permitting the occupancy of
a structure connected to the city’s wastewater system.

      (2)   Said certificate may be limited to the structure’s
wastewater system for those structures located outside the corporate
limits of the city.

   CITY. The City of Cave Springs, Arkansas, including, but not limited
to, its Wastewater Department.

   CITY COUNCIL. The duly elected/appointed City Council.

   DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, or corporation commencing a development
who is obligated to pay an impact fee in accordance with the terms of
this subchapter, or who would be obligated to pay such a fee, except for
an exemption, refund, or credit provided for in this subchapter.

   DEVELOPMENT. Any residential, multi-family, commercial, or industrial
improvement to lands within the system service area.

   IMPACT FEE STUDY (THE STUDY). A study that sets forth reasonable
methodologies and analysis for determining the impact of various types
of development on the city’s capital wastewater facilities, and that
determines the cost of the facilities necessary to meet the demands
created by new development.

   IMPACT FEE TRUST FUND. The Trust Fund established by this subchapter.
There shall be a Wastewater Impact Fee Trust Fund with fees collected
into the respective IMPACT FEE TRUST FUND.

   IMPACT FEES. The local wastewater impact fees established by this
subchapter, pursuant to A.C. § 14-56-103, for service area
utilities/improvements that meet increased service area demand.

   IMPROVEMENTS. The results of planning, engineering, design,
construction inspection, on-site construction, off-site construction,
land, the purchase of related equipment, and financing associated with
new, or expanded, capital wastewater facilities, buildings, and
equipment that expand the capacity of capital wastewater facilities, but
not including maintenance, operations, or improvements that do not
expand capacity.

   INDEPENDENT FEE CALCULATION STUDY. A study prepared by McClelland
Engineering (including, but not limited to, all plans and studies
referenced therein), calculating the cost of expansions, or
improvements, to the capital wastewater facilities required to serve the
developer’s proposed development, that performed in compliance with this
subchapter.

   PERSON. An individual, corporation, governmental agency, business
trust, estate, trust, partnership, association, two, or more, persons
having a joint or common interest, or any other entity.

   STATE. The State of Arkansas.

   SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST. A person, as defined by this subchapter, who
gains a fee simple interest in land for which an impact fee is paid, or
a credit is approved pursuant to the terms of this subchapter.

   SYSTEM. The city’s municipal wastewater system, including capital
wastewater facilities.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 51.38 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.

   The City Council finds, determines, and declares that:

   (A)   System expansion required. The protection of the health,
safely, and general welfare of the citizens of the city requires that
the city’s capital wastewater facilities be expanded, and improved, to
accommodate growth, and development, with the city;

   (B)   System demand. New residential, and non-residential,
development imposes increased, and excessive, demands upon the existing
system facilities, and often overburdens the existing system facilities;
provided, new development is expected to continue, and will place
ever-increasing demands on the system, to provide these facilities to
serve new development;

   (C)   System revenues. System revenues generated from new development
often does not generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary
capital wastewater facilities to accommodate new development; therefore,
the creation of an equitable local wastewater impact fee system would
enable the city to impose a proportionate share of the costs of the
needed improvements to system capital facilities to accommodate new
development;

   (D)   Study conducted. In order to implement an equitable local
impact fee system, the city caused to be prepared a Water and Wastewater
Capital Plan and Impact Fee Analysis, hereinafter termed “study”. Said
study is incorporated herein by reference, and sets forth reasonable
methodologies and analysis for determining the impacts of various types
of development on the city’s system capital facilities, and for
determining the costs of acquiring the improvements necessary to meet
the demands for such services created by new development;

   (E)   Standards established. The city hereby establishes, as city
standards, the assumptions and level of service standards in the study
as part of its current plans for future expansions to the city’s system
capital facilities;

   (F)   Impact fee use limited. The impact fees described in this
subchapter are based on the study, and do not exceed the costs of
improvements to serve new development that will pay the impact fees, nor
shall fees be used to correct existing deficiencies for these capital
facilities, or to replace, or rehabilitate, existing improvements. This
is intended to be a local improvement impact fee (for in-city
facilities/improvements that meet in-city demands) as to wastewater;

   (G)   Benefit. The in-city capital wastewater facilities/improvements
listed in the study will benefit all new development that depends on
city services, and it is therefore appropriate to treat the entire
system as a single service area for purposes of calculating, collecting,
and spending the local government impact fees as to wastewater;

   (H)   Impact fee relationship. There is both a rational nexus and
rough proportionality between the development impacts created by each
type of development covered by this subchapter, and the impact fees that
such development will be required to pay for wastewater; and

   (I)   Impact fee purpose. This subchapter creates a system by which
wastewater impact fees paid by new development will be used to finance,
defray, or reimburse all, or a portion of, the costs incurred by the
city to construct improvements for the system’s capital wastewater
facilities in ways that benefit the development that paid each fee
within a reasonable period of time after the fee is paid.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 51.39 INTENT.

   (A)   Capital improvement plan.

      (1)   This subchapter is adopted to assist in the implementation
of the city’s capital improvement plan for system projects, as set forth
in the study from McClelland Consulting Engineers, which the plan was
reviewed, and approved, by the City Water and Sewer Committees and City
Council, and used in the independent fee calculation study.

      (2)   To that end, the intent of this subchapter is to ensure that
new development bears a proportionate share of the costs of improvements
to capital wastewater facilities; to ensure that such proportionate
share does not exceed the costs of improvements for capital wastewater
facilities required to accommodate new development; and to ensure that
funds collected from new development are actually used for improvements
for capital wastewater facilities that benefit such new development.

   (B)   Impact fee purpose. It is the further intent of this subchapter
that new development pays for its fair share of the costs of local
improvements for capital wastewater facilities required to accommodate
new development though imposition of impact fees that will be used to
finance, defray, or reimburse all, or a portion, of the costs incurred
by the city to construct improvements to the city capital wastewater
facilities that serve, or benefit, such new development. It is not the
intent of this subchapter to collect any money from any new development
in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new demands for
capital wastewater facilities.

   (C)   Funds restricted. It is not the intent of this subchapter that
any monies collected from any local impact fee deposited in the
Wastewater Impact Fee Trust Fund ever be commingled with monies from any
other city trust funds or account, or ever be used for a type of
facility, or equipment, different from that for which the fees are paid,
or are ever used to replace, or rehabilitate, existing improvements.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 51.40 LOCAL IMPACT FEE IMPOSED.

   (A)   Local impact fee obligation. After the effective date of this
subchapter, any person, firm, or corporation who commences any
development, except those exempted hereinafter, shall be obligated to
pay local impact fees upon commencement of such activity. The amount of
the fees shall be determined in accordance with this subchapter, and
shall be paid to the city as provided hereinafter. All monies paid by a
developer pursuant to this subchapter shall be identified as local
wastewater impact fees, and shall be promptly deposited into the
Wastewater Impact Fee Trust Fund described herein.

   (B)   Local impact fee collection. Effective August 27, 2019, the
local impact fees imposed by this subchapter shall be collected in
connection with, and as a condition to, the installation of a water
meter serving the development, or of the connection to the wastewater
system, whichever comes first.

   (C)   Local impact fee calculation. Local impact fees shall be based
on water meter size. The impact fees established hereinafter may be
revised from time to time by the City Council; provided, such revisions
are based upon the independent fee calculation study, or a subsequent
independent fee calculation study.

   (D)   Fee determination.

      (1)   Schedule of fees. The Impact Fee Administrator shall
determine the amount of the local wastewater impact fees for residential
uses based on the type, or size, of the water meter, and for
non-residential uses, based on the size of the water meter using the
following schedule:

 

  ---------------------- ------------
  Water Meter Size       Impact Fee
  One inch               $3,000
  Three-fourths inches   $2,000
  Two inches             $5,000
  ---------------------- ------------

 

      (2)   Redevelopment, reconstruction, change of use. In the event
of a redevelopment, reconstruction, or change of use from an existing
development or use, the fee shall be the difference between what the fee
would be for the entire redevelopment, or reconstruction, project, and
what the fee would have been for the existing development, or use.
Existing development must be connected to the wastewater system at the
time of redevelopment in order to apply this credit.

      (3)   Mixed use. If the proposed development includes a mix of the
residential land uses, and/or non-residential meter sizes that are
listed in the local impact fee schedule, the fee shall be determined by
adding up the local wastewater impact fees that would be applicable for
each residential land use type, and/or non-residential meter size as if
it was freestanding land use type.

      (4)   Fire suppression/low pressure. It is the intent of this
subchapter to base the local wastewater impact fees on the typical usage
in a new building, or other facility. Extinguishing of fires is not a
typical usage; to allow adequate fire flow to sprinklers and internal
hydrants at some large, and at-risk, properties, it may be necessary,
for fire protection purposes, to install a larger wastewater meter than
would be necessary to meet day-to-day needs to that facility. In
addition, a larger meter may be required in areas of low wastewater
pressure than in areas of normal wastewater pressure for the same type
of use. In those cases, it is the policy of the city that the impact
fees for wastewater should be based on the meter size needed by the
facility for its typical usage, without regard to fire-flow, or unusual
pressure conditions.

      (5)   Irrigation. Any separate water meter installed for
irrigation purposes only shall not be included in the calculation of the
local wastewater impact fee.

      (6)   Master meters. In the event that a wastewater master meter
is utilized for any development, including multi-family or mixed use,
the local wastewater impact fees shall be based on the master meter
size.

      (7)   Impact fee correction. If a local impact fee has been
calculated, and paid, based on a mistake or misrepresentation, it shall
be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a developer shall be refunded
by the city within 30 days after the city’s acceptance of the
recalculated amount, with accrued interest since the date of such
overpayment. Any amounts underpaid by the developer shall be paid to the
city within 30 days after the city’s acceptance of the recalculated
amount, with accrued interest since the date of such underpayment. In
the case of an underpayment to the city, the city shall not issue any
additional permits, or approvals, for the development for which the
local impact fee was previously paid until such underpayment is
corrected, and if amounts owed to the city are not paid within such
30-day period, the city may also rescind any permits issued in reliance
on the previous payment of such local impact fee, and refund such fee to
the then current owner of the land.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 51.41 IMPACT FEE EXCEPTIONS.

   (A)   The following types of development shall be exempted from
payment of the local wastewater impact fees. Any claim for exemption
shall be made not later than the time when the applicant applies for the
first wastewater connection permit for the proposed development that
creates the obligation to pay the local impact fees. Any claim for
exemption not made at, or before, that time shall have been waived.

   (B)   The City Council, or designee, shall determine the validity of
any claim for exemption pursuant to the standards set forth below:

      (1)   Reconstruction, expansion, or replacement of a
previously-existing residential unit that does not create any additional
residential units, or installation of a larger wastewater meter;

      (2)   The replacement of a destroyed, or partially destroyed,
non-residential building, or structure, with a new non-residential
building, or structure, of the same use as the original structure, and
with no more than a 5% increase in floor area from the original
structure, and no increase in the size, or number, of wastewater meters;

      (3)   Construction of unoccupied accessory structures related to a
residential unit;

      (4)   Developments for which local impact fees for each type of
facility covered by this subchapter has previously been paid in an
amount that equals, or exceeds, the local impact fees that would be
required by this subchapter;

      (5)   Developments built by the federal government, and the state;

      (6)   Public schools;

      (7)   Construction within a duly established redevelopment
district, or improvement district, for which the local impact fees have
specifically been waived by resolution of the City Council prior to
commencement of the improvements; and

      (8)   Such other economic, or community, development projects for
which the local impact fees have specifically been waived by resolution
of the City Council prior to commencement of the development.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 51.42 USE OF IMPACT FEE TRUST FUND.

   (A)   Trust Fund. A local Wastewater Impact Fee Trust Fund is hereby
established for the purpose of ensuring that the impact fees collected,
pursuant to this subchapter, are designated for the accommodation of
impacts reasonably attributable to new development that paid the local
impact fees.

   (B)   Trust Fund management. All local impact fees collected by the
city pursuant to this subchapter shall be promptly deposited into the
local Wastewater Impact Fee Trust Fund, as appropriate. The Impact Fee
Trust Fund shall be maintained in interest bearing accounts. Monies in
the Trust Fund shall be considered to be spent in the order collected,
on a first-in/first-out basis. These funds shall contain only local
wastewater fees collected pursuant to this subchapter, plus any
interest, which may accrue, from time to time, on each such fund.

   (C)   Trust Fund limitations. The following limitations shall apply
to the use, and expenditure, of local impact fees collected, and
deposited, in the Trust Fund:

      (1)   Each local impact fee imposed pursuant to this subchapter
may be assessed, collected, and expended only for the planning, design,
and construction of new wastewater facilities, or of capital
improvements to existing wastewater facilities that expand the system’s
capacity, or for the recoupment of prior capital improvements to
wastewater facilities that created capacity available to serve new
development;

      (2)   The local wastewater impact fees may be pledged to the
payment of bonds issued by the city to finance wastewater capital
improvements, or wastewater facilities for which the local impact fees
may be imposed;

      (3)   No local impact fee shall be assessed for, or expended for,
the operation, or maintenance, of any wastewater facility, or for the
construction, or improvement, of wastewater facilities that do not
create additional capacity;

      (4)   No monies from the Trust Fund shall be spent for periodic,
or routine, maintenance, rehabilitation, or replacement of any facility
of any type, or to cure deficiencies in capital wastewater facilities
existing on the effective date of this subchapter; and

      (5)   Monies, as described in § 51.43.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 51.43 REFUNDS.

   (A)   When refunds are due. The city shall refund the portion of
collected development local wastewater impact fees, including the
accrued interest, that has not been expended seven years from the date
the fees were paid. The refund shall be made on a pro rata basis, and
shall be paid in full not later than 90 days after the date certain upon
which the refund becomes due. Interest paid shall be based on a 4%
annual rate.

   (B)   Refund notice. When due, a refund shall be paid to the present
owner of the property that was the subject of new development, and
against which the fee was assessed and collected. Notice of the right to
a refund, including the amount of the refund and the procedure for
applying for, and receiving, the refund, shall be sent, or served, in
writing, to the present owners of the property no later than 30 days
after the date on which the refund becomes due. The sending by regular
mail of the notices to all present owners of record shall be sufficient
to satisfy the requirement of notice.

   (C)   Refund payment. The refund shall be made on a pro rata basis,
and shall be paid in full no later than 90 days after the date certain
upon which the refund becomes due.

   (D)   Notice of refund rights. At the time of payment of the local
wastewater impact fee under this subchapter, the Impact Fee
Administrator shall provide the applicant paying such fees with written
notice of those circumstances under which refunds of such fees will be
made. Failure to deliver such written notice shall not invalidate any
collection of any impact fee under this subchapter.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 51.44 APPEALS.

   (A)    Any determination made by an official of the city charged with
the administration of any part of this subchapter may be appealed to the
City Council by filing with the City Clerk-Treasurer within ten days of
the date of the determination being appealed:

      (1)   A written notice of appeal on a form provided by the city;

      (2)   A written explanation of why the appellant feels that a
determination was in error; and

      (3)   An appeal fee established by the city, if any.

   (B)    The City Council shall promptly fix a time, and place, for
hearing the appeal, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall mail notice of the
hearing to the appellant at the address given in the notice of appeal by
first-class mail postage prepaid. The hearing shall be conducted at the
time, and place, stated in such notice given by the City Council. The
determination of the City Council shall be final.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 51.45 CAPITAL PLAN; LEVEL OF SERVICE STANDARDS.

   (A)   Plan adoption. The capital wastewater facilities, to be
financed by the wastewater impact fees, shall be those facilities
identified in the capital plan and level of service standards, as
presented in the study prepared by McClelland Engineering, as adopted §
50.35, by the City Council, and used in the independent fee calculation
study. In this regard, the applicable sections of such study and letter,
are hereby adopted as the official capital plan and level of services of
the city’s wastewater system.

   (B)   Plan revisions.

      (1)   Said plan in division (A) above, and standards, may be
revised from time to time by resolution of the City Council. To this
end, periodically, the Mayor, or engineers hired by the city, may
present to the City Council a proposed capital improvements program for
the city capital wastewater facilities, and such capital improvements
program shall assign monies from the Trust Fund as appropriate to
specific projects, and related expenses for capital wastewater
facilities.

      (2)   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to
specific projects within such capital improvements program, and not
expended, shall be retained in the Trust Fund, subject to the refund
provisions above.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 51.46 ADMINISTRATION.

   (A)   Impact Fee Administrator. The City Council shall assign to a
city employee the responsibilities of the Impact Fee Administrator,
hereinabove set forth. Failure of the Council to make such assignment,
or in case of a lapse in such responsibility after assignment by the
Council, the responsibility shall be on the Clerk-Treasurer to fulfill
such responsibilities.

   (B)   Monies collected. All monies collected as local wastewater
impact fees, all funds held as local wastewater impact fees in the
above-mentioned Trust Fund, all accounts created to hold the local
wastewater impact fees, and all refunds of unexpended local wastewater
impact fees (including interest thereon) shall be by the duly
elected/appointed City Clerk-Treasurer.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 51.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which
no specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to § 10.99

   (B)   A user which has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of §§ 51.01 through 51.21, a discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, shall be
liable to the Control Authority for a maximum civil penalty of $1,000
per violation, per day. In the case of a monthly, or other long term,
average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the
period of violation.

(Ord. 2019-15, passed 8-26-2019)

CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Section

   52.01   Definitions

   52.02   Authorized collectors

   52.03   Collection

   52.04   Accumulation of waste and the placement of containers

   52.05   Removal of construction refuse, old appliances, bulky waste,
and the like

   52.06   Rates and billing

   52.07   Responsibility for payment of bill

   52.08   Containment of construction refuse and debris

 

   52.99   Penalty

§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.

   APPROVED CONTAINER. A 96-gallon container, or other approved size,
provided by the contractor with wheels and a lid for the collection of
acceptable solid waste, and a 65-gallon container provided by the
contractor with wheels and a lid for the collection of solid waste or
recycling.

   APPROVED SUBCONTRACTOR. An agent, or subcontractor, of the contractor
specifically authorized, and approved, by the city to collect solid
waste and recycling materials in the city.

   BULKY WASTE.

      (1)   Waste to include furniture, appliances, metal items, or
larger items not normally collected from the weekly residential
collection programs.

      (2)   Items not considered BULKY WASTE include construction
materials, tires, paint, hazardous waste, pesticides, appliances
containing Freon, and any item specified as excluded waste.

   CITY. The City of Cave Springs, Arkansas.

   COMMERCIAL WASTE. Solid waste generated by a commercial or industrial
establishment, a multiple residential unit, business, residential
construction, or combined units of businesses that streamline waste into
consolidated containers that typically generate more than two cubic
yards of solid waste per week, or an agricultural customer, meaning any
customer owning ten acres, or more, of land for agricultural use who
chooses not to be a residential waste customer.

   CONTRACTOR. The sanitation company approved by the city for
residential solid waste and/or recycling services.

   EXCLUDED SOLID WASTE. Includes, but is not limited to, medical waste,
construction and demolition waste (except in roll-off containers), large
bulky items, appliances, batteries, paint, items containing an engine or
compressor, items containing CFCs or PCBs (such as white goods), and any
radioactive, volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic, or hazardous
substance or material, including any substance listed, or characterized,
as toxic or hazardous by any applicable federal, state, or local law.

   EXTRAORDINARY MATERIALS. Hazardous wastes, body wastes, dead animals,
abandoned vehicles, vehicle parts, large equipment, and parts thereof.

   EXTRA SOLID WASTE or EXTRA BAGS. Any solid waste that will not fit
inside the provided container.

   FRANCHISE FEE. Four percent of the total collected receipts from the
collection of residential or commercial waste in the city which is
payable to the city, as provided by the agreement between the contractor
and the city for the collection of residential solid waste or by the
collection of commercial solid waste within the city.

   GARBAGE. The same as SOLID WASTE.

   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Wastes that are hazardous by reason of their
pathological, explosive, radiological, or toxic characteristics, or by
virtue of their being defined as hazardous by any state, or federal, law
or regulation.

   RESIDENTIAL or RESIDENTIAL UNIT. An occupied dwelling within the
corporate limits of the city occupied by a person, or group of persons
compromising not more than four families or units who reside in the same
dwelling. A RESIDENTIAL UNIT shall be deemed occupied when either water
or domestic light and power services are being supplied thereto.

   RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Solid waste generated by residences, as well as
businesses, that generate less than two cubic yards of solid waste per
week.

   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible, and non-putrescible, waste in solid, or
semisolid, form, including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes,
or incinerator residue, or street refuse, but excluding yard waste,
extraordinary materials, hazardous materials, and special materials, as
defined herein.

   TRASH. The same as, and shall be defined as, SOLID WASTE.

   UNIT. Residence, business, or industry within the city that generates
solid waste, and other materials, that must be disposed.

   YARD WASTE. Grass clippings, mulch, brush, tree limbs, leaves,
sticks, or any other item derived from a once-living tree, or plant
species.

(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)

§ 52.02 AUTHORIZED COLLECTORS.

   (A)   All residential units within the corporate limits of the city
shall use the contractor, or approved subcontractor, as set forth herein
for the collection of solid waste services. Residents, owners, or
authorized agents of residential units shall not negotiate for the
collection of solid waste, other than those arranged by the city through
the contractor and approved subcontractor, and no persons shall opt to
assume the responsibility of disposal of solid waste for themselves, or
in any other manner not specifically set forth by this chapter.

   (B)   No residential waste service provider shall provide residential
waste or recycling services within the city without the formal prior
approval of the City Council.

   (C)   Any individual found to be disposing of solid waste in a manner
not permitted by this chapter shall be guilty of a violation of this
chapter, and punished as provided by § 52.99(B) herein.

   (D)   The city grants to the contractor the exclusive right, and
obligation, to provide solid waste and recycling collection services for
units within the city boundaries. The terms of such exclusive franchise
shall be in accordance with the provisions of any such solid waste and
recycling agreement between the contractor and the city. No other
person, or entity, except such contractor, or approved subcontractor,
shall be permitted to convey, or transport, solid waste or recycling for
residential units within the city. The contractor, or approved
subcontractor, shall pay the city a franchise fee, which shall be set at
4% of the rates charged for the privilege of doing business in the city,
pursuant to such agreement between the city and the contractor, and/or
approved subcontractor.

   (E)   The contractor, and approved subcontractor, shall have the
right, and privilege, to operate collection vehicles, and equipment, on
such streets, public ways, rights-of-way, or easements of the city.

   (F)   Commercial waste providers licensed, or authorized, by the city
to provide commercial waste services shall be permitted to provide
commercial waste services to non-residential units within the city. The
commercial waste service provider shall pay the city a franchise fee, or
license fee, which shall be set at 4% of the rates charged for
commercial waste services for the privilege of doing business in the
city and for the use of city streets, roads, and rights-of-way, and for
the privilege of doing business in the city. Such franchise fee shall be
payable in accordance with a written agreement with the city, which
shall be in place prior to entering into any service agreements with
commercial waste customers in the city. The franchise fee, or license
fee, for commercial waste service providers went into effect on
September 1, 2021.

(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)

§ 52.03 COLLECTION.

   Weekly collections are to be made under the following conditions:

   (A)   Approved containers required. All units shall set out solid
waste and recycling for collection by the contractor, or approved
subcontractor, in approved containers.

      (1)   Responsibility for containers. The contractor shall retain
ownership of all approved containers. Damaged, or lost, approved
containers shall be replaced with the costs of replacement to be billed
to the customer, unless the damage, or loss, is caused by the
contractor. If a resident fails to return an approved container upon
moving from a residential unit, the resident shall be billed for the
replacement of the approved container.

      (2)   Non-recycling. Non-recyclables shall not be placed in the
approved container for recycling.

   (B)   Location. All solid waste and recycling shall be placed at a
location by 6:00 a.m. on the designated weekly collection day that is
readily accessible to the contractor’s personnel.

      (1)   Residential waste and recycling. Residential waste and
recycling shall be placed at a single collection point within six feet
of the curb, or at another approved location. Scavenging of recycling
materials placed at the curb in approved containers shall not be
permitted.

      (2)   Commercial waste and industrial waste. Solid waste shall be
kept on the premises in approved containers, and placed at a single
collection point in a place near the street or alley, readily accessible
to the collection vehicles.

      (3)   Accessibility. The contract shall provide front porch, or
house line, service to any resident age 65, or older, or who has a
documented disability that makes the placement of the approved
containers on the curbside difficult.

   (C)   Residential solid waste and recycling collection frequency. The
contractor shall collect, one time per week, on a set schedule, the
residential waste for each residential unit that is placed in a provided
container, as set forth herein. Provided containers shall be placed by
the resident of a unit in a location that is readily accessible to the
contractor and its collection equipment, not to exceed six feet from the
curb, or edge, of the travel portion of the street, road, or alley, and
not to be located in a manner that will block the driveway or mailbox,
or otherwise inhibit proper servicing. The contractor shall not be
required to collect any residential waste that is not placed in a
provided container, any residential waste from a provided container that
is overloaded, or a provided container that is not properly placed
curbside.

   (D)    Holidays. There shall be no residential waste, or recycling,
collection on Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving,
Christmas, and New Year’s Day. The collection of residential waste, or
recycling, for days which fall on a holiday, or on days of inclement
weather where collection is not possible, shall occur on the earliest
possible day as set forth by the contractor.

(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)

§ 52.04 ACCUMULATION OF WASTE AND THE PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.

   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee
of any dwelling, or place of business, or unit, in the city to allow
solid waste, or recycling, to accumulate on his or her premises, or to
place, or cause to be placed, the containers therefor in such a manner
as to cause unsanitary conditions in the city. Any individual found to
be in violation of this provision shall be punished as provided by §
52.99.

   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section for such owner,
occupant, tenant, or lessee to place, more than 24 hours before, or
allow to remain more than 24 hours after, the scheduled collection date,
solid waste, recycling, trash, or garbage containers at the curbside
pick up point, except for a showing of just cause. The collection date,
and curbside collection point, shall be established by the contractor,
or his or her authorized representative, who shall give adequate notice
thereof to each owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee.

   (C)   The curbside collection point is established only for
efficient, and economical, collection service, and it shall be the duty
of each premises’ occupant to keep the approved containers at all times,
other than as allowed by this section, at a location on his or her
premises, which is suitable, and consistent, with the standard set forth
herein.

   (D)   It shall be a violation of this section for such owner,
occupant, tenant, or lessee of any dwelling place, unit, or business in
the city, or any person, to dispose of solid waste, recycling, or yard
waste, or construction waste, by dumping, burning, or discharging, said
waste on any property within the city, except through the use of
approved services, as provided for in this chapter or specifically
authorized by state law or authority. If a person is found to have
disposed of solid waste, recycling, or yard waste in a manner not
allowed by ordinance, he or she shall be guilty of a violation of this
chapter, and punished as provided by § 52.99(B) herein.

(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021) Penalty, see § 52.99

§ 52.05 REMOVAL OF CONSTRUCTION REFUSE, OLD APPLIANCES, BULKY WASTE, AND
THE LIKE.

   (A)   The contractor shall not, in any way, be required, or
obligated, to collect, or remove, from private property refuse, or
debris, resulting from the repair, razing, or construction of buildings,
nor to render any other service, unless specifically provided for in
this chapter. The removal of such items is the responsibility of the
owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of the property.

   (B)   The contractor shall provide rates for the removal of bulky
waste a special bulky waste collection service twice per year to all
residential customers, unless otherwise specified. The contractor shall
also provide city wide cleanups for bulky waste in the fall and spring
at locations which will be announced from time to time.

(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)

§ 52.06 RATES AND BILLING.

   The rates to be charged for sanitation services shall be as follows.

   (A)   Residential units or waste. The rates, and charges, for
collection of residential waste, and recycling, shall be as set, and as
amended from time to time, by the solid waste service agreement between
the city and the contractor.

   (B)   Commercial waste. The rates, and charges, for the collection of
solid waste, and recycling, including all applicable sales tax and
charges, shall be set by the negotiation of commercially reasonable
pricing and charges between the customer and the contractor, in
accordance with the amount of service required.

(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)

§ 52.07 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF BILL.

   The fact that legal title to property is in any person, business, or
other entity, constitutes prima facie proof that the person, business,
or other entity is responsible for the payment of charges provided for
in this chapter. The fact that charges incurred were for services
provided to a tenant, agent, or other person using the title holder’s
property shall not be grounds for avoidance of penalties under this
chapter.

(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)

§ 52.08 CONTAINMENT OF CONSTRUCTION REFUSE AND DEBRIS.

   The general contractor of any construction site shall provide
adequate trash containment facilities for the construction site. All
such trash containment facilities must be able to hold a minimum of five
cubic yards of refuse, and must contain no openings of greater than
three inches. The trash containment facility must be in place no later
than at the time of the first required inspection of the site by the
city, or its authorized representative. The trash containment facility
shall be emptied on a regular basis. If the city received a complaint
regarding a trash containment facility at a construction site, the city,
or its authorized representative, shall notify the general contractor,
in writing, regarding the complaint, and shall request that efforts be
undertaken by the general contractor to remedy the situation. If
subsequent complaints are received by the city pertaining to the same
construction site, the city, or its authorized representative, shall
provide the general contractor with written notice that the general
contractor has three working days in which to remedy the situation. If
the general contractor does not remedy the situation within that time,
it shall be considered a violation of this chapter, and shall be
punishable pursuant to § 52.99(B). In addition, the city, or its
authorized representative, shall cease all inspections until the
construction site complies with this section.

(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)

§ 52.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person refusing, or failing, to pay any charge assessed
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, including both the failure
to pay for residential solid waste, and recycling, collection, and the
failure to pay for the collection of commercial, or industrial, waste,
shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter, and punished as provided
by division (B) below.

   (B)   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and may be punished by a fine of not less than $10,
nor more than $500 for the first offense, and not less than $10, nor
more than $250 for each offense each day, plus court costs and
reasonable attorney fees for each violation.

(2021-17, passed 6-28-2021)

TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE

   Chapter

      70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS

      71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS

      72.   PARKING SCHEDULES

CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section

   70.01   Adoption of state laws

   70.02   Truck routes

 

   70.99   Penalty

§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAWS.

   The “Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways of Arkansas”, being
A.C. § 27-49-101, and as contained in A.C. Title 27, three copies of
which are on file in the office of the Mayor, is hereby adopted as
traffic rules and regulations within, and for, the city. Any person
convicted of violation of said statutes shall be deemed guilty of the
violation of the ordinances of the city, and shall be fined, or
imprisoned, or both, in the manner set out under the state statutes.

(Prior Code, § 8.04.01)

§ 70.02 TRUCK ROUTES.

   (A)   Controlled access highways. The city shall have the right to
establish certain controlled access highways within the city, upon which
the City Council can restrict selected roadways to certain truck vehicle
traffic, as provided herein.

(Prior Code, § 8.28.01)

   (B)   Signs. Upon posting of said streets, or roadways, with adequate
signs stating “No Through Trucks”, and providing for similar
limitations, the restrictions provided for shall be in effect. The sign
posting set forth in this section shall be as called for in the
regulations of the State Highway and Transportation Department.

(Prior Code, § 8.28.02)

   (C)   Definition. For purposes of this section, and the “No Through
Trucks” sign postings, a TRUCK shall be considered any vehicle in excess
of 6,000 pounds in weight, or any combination of truck and trailer,
which exceeds 6,000 pounds in weight.

(Prior Code, § 8.28.03)

   (D)   Destination. The controlled access highways of “No Through
Truck” restrictions shall not apply to trucks with a beginning point, or
final destination, on the posted street within the corporate limits of
the city.

(Prior Code, § 8.28.04)

(Ord. 2006-21, passed - -)

§ 70.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which
no specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to § 10.99.

   (B)   The penalty for violation of the provisions of § 70.02 shall be
court costs, as established by the court in setting judgments of said
violation, plus an additional penalty not to exceed $50 for each
offense.

(Prior Code, § 8.28.05) (Ord. 2006-21, passed - -)

CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS

Section

   71.01   Prohibition

   71.02   Definitions

   71.03   Careless and prohibited driving

 

   71.99   Penalty

§ 71.01 PROHIBITION.

   Vehicles (as defined by A.C. § 27-14-104(29)) shall be driven on both
public highways and private property in a careful manner, and with due
regard for the safety, and convenience, of pedestrians and all other
vehicles.

(Prior Code, § 8.12.01) (Ord. 2003-6, passed - -)

§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.

   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten
passengers, and used for the transportation of persons, and every motor
vehicle, other than a taxicab, designed, and used, for the
transportation of persons for compensation.

   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. All officers of counties, cities, villages,
incorporated towns, or townships.

   MOBILE HOME. Every house trailer, or other vehicle, with, or without,
wheels, designed for use as living quarters, either permanent or
temporary, and at the time of manufacture, capable of being towed, or
otherwise transported, or drawn upon a highway.

   MOTOR HOME. A motor vehicle designated to provide temporary living
quarters, built onto an integral part of, or permanently attached to, a
self-propelled motor vehicle chassis. The vehicle must contain
permanently installed, independent life-support systems.

   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every
vehicle which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead
trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.

   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the
rider, and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground, excluding a tractor.

   PUBLIC HIGHWAYS. Any highway, county road, state road, public street,
avenue, alley, park, parkway, driveway, or any other public road, or
public place, in any county, city, village, or incorporated towns.

   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All real property used by the public, or dedicated
to public use by permission of the owner(s), and not as a matter of
right, for purposes of vehicular travel, or parking.

   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public, or governmental,
agency, and operated for the transportation of children to, or from,
school, or privately-owned, and operated, for compensation for the
transportation of children to, or from, school.

   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person, or property,
is, or may be, transported, or drawn, upon a highway, excepting devices
moved by human power, or used exclusively upon stationary rails or
tracks.

(Prior Code, § 8.12.02) (Ord. 2003-6, passed - -)

§ 71.03 CARELESS AND PROHIBITED DRIVING.

   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, or operate, any
vehicle in such a careless manner as to evidence a failure to keep a
proper lookout for other traffic, vehicular or otherwise, or in such a
manner as to evidence a failure to maintain proper control on the public
thoroughfares, or private property in the state.

   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or drive, any
vehicle on the public thoroughfares, or private property, in the state
in violation of the following prohibited acts:

      (1)   Improper, or unsafe, lane changes on public roadways;

      (2)   Driving onto, or across, private property to avoid
intersections, stop signs, traffic control devices, or traffic lights;

      (3)   Driving in such a manner, or at such a speed, so as to cause
a skidding, spinning, or sliding of tires, or a sliding of the vehicle;

      (4)   Driving too close to, or colliding with, parked or stopped
vehicles, fixtures, persons, or objects adjacent to the public
thoroughfares;

      (5)   Driving a vehicle which has any part thereof, or any object,
extended in such fashion as to endanger persons or property;

      (6)   To operate any vehicle in such a manner which would cause a
failure to maintain control;

      (7)   To operate, or drive, a vehicle wherein, or whereon,
passengers are located in such a manner as to be dangerous to the
welfare of such passengers; or

      (8)   To operate a vehicle in any manner when the driver is
inattentive, and such inattention is not reasonable, and prudent, in
maintaining vehicular control.

(Prior Code, § 8.12.03) (Ord. 2003-6, passed - -) Penalty, see § 71.99

§ 71.99 PENALTY.

   All persons operating vehicles in violation of this chapter shall, if
found guilty of a first offense, pay restitution to the city of not less
than $25, and not more than $250, and for a second offense, and
subsequent offenses, not less than $50, and not more than $500.

(Prior Code, § 8.12.04) (Ord. 2003-6, passed - -)

CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES

Schedule

      I.   No parking zones

SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.

   Upon request of the citizens of the city, and the City Police
Department, the City Council finds a need to establish a “No Parking”
zone in a certain area along Main Street. This area would be from the
corner of East Midway and Main south 80 feet in front of the Community
Building. Parking in this area has created a traffic hazard for traffic
merging from Midway east onto Main Street.

(Prior Code, § 8.16.01) (Ord. 2004-15, passed - -)

TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS

   Chapter

      90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES

      91.   ANIMALS

      92.   PARKS AND RECREATION

      93.   EQUAL OPPORTUNITY HOUSING

      94.   FIREWORKS

CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES

Section

Nuisances

   90.01   Administration

   90.02   Definitions

   90.03   General requirements

   90.04   Nuisances

Motor Vehicles

   90.15   Non-operating vehicles

   90.16   Engine brakes

Open Burning

   90.30   Regulations

   90.31   Authority

   90.32   Defense

 

   90.99   Penalty

NUISANCES

§ 90.01 ADMINISTRATION.

   (A)   Introduction.

      (1)   General. This subchapter shall be known as the City Nuisance
Abatement Code. These regulations are intended to ensure public health,
safety, and welfare insofar as they are affected by the continued
occupancy, and maintenance, of structures, and premises, within the
city.

      (2)   Applicability. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply
to all residential, and non-residential, structures, and all premises
within the city, and constitute minimum requirements, and standards, for
premises, structures, life safety, safety from fire and other hazards,
and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of owners,
operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing structures and
premises; and for administration, enforcement, and penalties.
Structures, and premises, that do not comply with these provisions shall
be altered, or repaired, to provide a minimum level of health and
safety, as required herein. Repairs, alterations, additions to, and
change of, occupancy in existing buildings shall comply with the State
Fire Prevention Code. Where different standards, or requirements, are
imposed by this subchapter, and other competent authority, or by
different sections of this subchapter, the most restrictive standard, or
requirement, shall govern.

      (3)   Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices, and safeguards
required by this subchapter, or a previous regulation, or code, under
which the structure, or premises, was constructed, altered, or required,
shall be maintained in good working order. No occupant shall cause any
required service, facility, equipment, or utility to be removed from, or
shutoff from or discontinued, for any occupied dwelling, except for
temporary interruptions necessitated by repairs, or alterations. The
requirements of this subchapter are not intended to provide the basis
for removal, or abrogation, of fire protection and safety systems, and
devices, in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein,
the owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings,
structures, and premises.

(Prior Code, § 5.04.01)

   (B)   Code Enforcement Officers.

      (1)   General. This subchapter shall be enforced by all Code
Enforcement Officers of the city. For the purposes of this subchapter, a
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER shall be defined as any city employee who has
been duly sworn, and authorized, to uphold the ordinances of the city,
and laws of the state related to property uses, maintenance, nuisances,
inspections, issuances of building permits, certifications and
licensing, and the like, within the municipal boundaries of the city.
This subchapter may also be enforced by any, and all, duly sworn law
enforcement officers of the City Police Department.

      (2)   Identification. All Code Enforcement Officers shall carry
proper identification, and present the same upon request when performing
duties under this subchapter.

      (3)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties
involved in carrying out the provisions of this subchapter, the Senior
Code Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to grant modifications
for individual cases; provided, the Senior Code Enforcement Officer
shall first make written findings that a special condition, or
circumstance, exists such that the strict letter of this subchapter is
impractical, and the modification is in compliance with the intent and
purpose of this subchapter, and that such modification does not lessen
health, life, and fire safety requirements. The details of action
granting modifications shall be recorded, and entered, in the Department
files.

      (4)   Enforcement procedures. Whenever, in the judgment of the
Code Enforcement Officer charged with enforcement of this subchapter, it
is determined, upon investigation, that a public nuisance is being
maintained, or exists, within the city, such officer shall issue a
written notice, in accordance with § 90.04(C)(1), to the person
committing, or maintaining, such nuisance, requiring such person to
remedy, and abate, the nuisance.

      (5)   No duty to enforce. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed as requiring the city to enforce the regulations in this
subchapter against:

         (a)   Alleged violations determined to be frivolous complaints;

         (b)   Alleged violations lacking in substantive evidence to
constitute a nuisance;

         (c)   Alleged violations where the evidentiary value of the
alleged violation is not enough to support a conviction in court; or

         (d)   Violations which may occur, and are not recognized, by
the city due to the lack of availability of the resources.

(Prior Code, § 5.04.02)

   (C)   Inspections.

      (1)   Right of entry. Code Enforcement Officers are authorized to
enter structures, or premises, at reasonable times to inspect, subject
to constitutional restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If
entry is refused, or not obtained, the officers may pursue such search
authorizations as are provided by law.

      (2)   Inspections. Code Enforcement Officers shall make all of the
inspections required by this subchapter. All reports of such inspections
shall be in writing by the responsible Officer. Code Enforcement
Officers are authorized to rely upon a responsible expert opinion, as
the Officer deems necessary, to report upon unusual technical issues
that arise.

(Prior Code, § 5.04.03)

   (D)   Violations.

      (1)   Violations declared to be strict liability misdemeanors. It
shall be unlawful for a person, firm, or corporation to be in conflict
with, or in violation of, any of the provisions of this subchapter. Any
person who is convicted of a violation of this subchapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and the violation shall be deemed a strict
liability offense.

      (2)   Citations. Code Enforcement Officers are hereby authorized
to issue citations to any person, firm, or corporation in conflict with,
or in violation of, any of the provisions of this subchapter. Issuances
of citations must comply with the State Rules of Criminal Procedures.
The State District Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction over
citations issued pursuant to this subchapter.

      (3)   Appeals. Any person, after being found guilty of a
violation, or after entering a plea of guilty, or nolo contendere, to a
violation, shall have those appellant rights granted under the laws of
the state, U.S. Constitution, and the State Rules of Criminal Procedure.
Appeals of convictions of a violation will be with the County Circuit
Court.

(Prior Code, § 5.04.04)

   (E)   Revocation of certificates, licenses, and permits.

      (1)   General. The purpose of this division (E) is to provide a
procedure for the revocation of various certificates, licenses, and
permits issued by the city to prevent the use of structures described in
division (E)(2) below. The certificates, licenses, and permits subject
to revocation under this subchapter are those relating to the
particular, or general, use of property; including, without limitation,
and for the purpose of illustration only: certificates of occupancy;
zoning variances; certification of appropriateness; business licenses;
sign permits; building permits; electrical and plumbing inspection
approvals; conditional use permits; special use permits; and the like.

      (2)   Administrative revocation.

         (a)   Code Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to
initiate administrative revocation of any such certificate, license, or
permit if he or she has a reasonable belief that the use of the property
or structure:

            1.   Poses a danger to the health, and welfare, of the
public;

            2.   Threatens the property, or safety, of any citizen;

            3.   Violates the terms, and/or scope, of the certificate,
license, or permit; or

            4.   Lacks compliance with applicable state licensing laws
and requirements.

         (b)   The non-emergency administrative revocation of a
certificate, license, or permit shall follow the procedures of notice,
and determination, provided in division (F) below.

      (3)   Temporary emergency orders. The Senior Code Enforcement
Officer shall have the authority to issue a temporary emergency order in
conjunction with notice of an administrative revocation as described in
division (E)(2) above. The temporary emergency order shall have the
effect of prohibiting all activity that may be harmful to the public or
any person, and suspending any certificate, license, or permit
authorizing the same. The Senior Code Enforcement Officer may issue a
temporary emergency order when he or she has a reasonable belief that
the use of the property or structure:

         (a)   Poses an imminent danger to the health, safety, or
welfare of the public; or

         (b)   Threatens the life, or poses an imminent danger of
serious injury, to any citizen.

      (4)   Service of temporary emergency orders. Service of temporary
emergency orders may be made by any Code Enforcement Officer upon the
owner, manager, employee, or occupant of a structure that is subject to
the provisions of division (E)(3) above. If no one is located at the
structure, the temporary emergency order shall be affixed to the
structure, and written notice shall proceed according to division (F)(2)
below. All notices for this division (E)(4) shall clearly state
“Temporary Emergency Order”, and conform to the requirements of division
(F)(1) below.

      (5)   Special uses, conditional uses, and other authorizations
issued by City Council. The City Council may revoke a special use,
conditional use, or any other authorization to use property, or conduct
business, that violates the terms of the use, or threatens the property,
or safety, of any citizen, or is detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of the public. Such a revocation may be performed at any
regular, or special meeting, of City Council. The revocation shall be
based upon the report of a Code Enforcement Officer, complaint of a
citizen, or sua sponte action by City Council.

(Prior Code, § 5.04.05)

   (F)   Administrative procedures.

      (1)   Notice of violation. A notice of violation shall be written
on standardized, or letter, form approved by the Senior Code Enforcement
Officer that shall include the following information:

         (a)   The name of the owner, if known;

         (b)   An address, or description, of the real estate sufficient
for identification;

         (c)   A description of the violation, or violations;

         (d)   A statement that citations may be issued, and fines
assessed, in addition to any administrative remedy imposed by the city;

         (e)   A statement that the city has a right to cause repairs,
or demolition, to be made, and that the costs may be assessed against
the owner, and the property of the owner; and

         (f)   The information required by A.C. § 14-54-903, if
applicable.

      (2)   Method of service. Administrative notices (such as a notice
of violation) shall be issued by any person authorized under A.C. §
14-54-903 by:

         (a)   Posting on the subject property;

         (b)   Regular mail; or

         (c)   Certified mail, return receipt requested.

      (3)   Notice by mail. Notice by mail shall be sent to the owner’s
address of record with the applicable county treasurer or collector.
When sent to the proper address with proper postage, notice by mail
shall be deemed properly served without regard as to whether the owner,
or occupant, accepted the mail, or the mail was otherwise returned.

      (4)   Transfer of ownership. After receiving a notice of
violation, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any property, or
structure, to sell, transfer, mortgage, and lease, or otherwise
alienate, or dispose of, the same until:

         (a)   The property, or structure, has been caused to conform
with this subchapter; or

         (b)   The owner shall provide the other party a true copy of
any notice of violation issued by a Code Enforcement Officer, and shall
furnish to the Senior Code Enforcement Officer a signed, and notarized,
statement from the other party accepting responsibility for the
property, or structure.

      (5)   Exceptions. The notice of violation requirements of this
division (F) shall not apply to the issuances of citations. Issuance of
citations must comply with the procedures described in division (G)
below.

(Prior Code, § 5.04.06)

   (G)   Condemnation.

      (1)   Keeping of condemned structures prohibited. It shall be, and
it is hereby declared to be, unlawful for any person, or persons,
partnership, corporation, or association, to own, keep, or maintain any
house, building, and/or structure within the corporate limits of the
city which constitutes a nuisance, and which is found, and declared, to
be a nuisance by resolution of the City Council.

      (2)   Condemnation. Any such house, building, and/or structure
which is found, and declared, to be a nuisance by resolution of the City
Council will be condemned to ensure the removal thereof, as herein
provided.

      (3)   Notices. The Code Enforcement Department shall be
responsible for publication, mailing, or delivery of all notices
required to condemn structures.

         (a)   Prior to the consideration of a resolution by the City
Council declaring any house, building, and/or structure as a nuisance,
the owner(s) and any mortgagee(s), or lien holder(s), of such house,
building, and/or structure shall be mailed written notification of the
date, time, and place that the City Council will consider said
resolution. In addition, said notice shall inform the owner(s) and any
mortgagee(s), or lien holder(s), of the right to be heard at the City
Council meeting on the proposed resolution declaring such house,
building, and/or structure to be a nuisance.

         (b)   Should the owner(s) and mortgagee(s), and/or lien
holder(s), of any such house, building, and/or structure be unknown, or
their whereabouts be unknown, or if they do not reside in the state,
then a copy of the written notice shall be posted upon said premises,
and the City Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designee, shall make an
affidavit setting out the facts as to unknown address, unknown
whereabouts, and/or non-resident status of said owner(s), mortgagee(s),
and lien holder(s). Thereupon, service of publication, as now provided
for by law against unknown and/or non-resident defendant(s), may be had,
and an attorney ad litem shall be appointed to notify such persons by
registered letter addressed to their last known place(s) of residence,
or business.

      (4)   Resolution information. The resolution of the City Council
condemning any house, building, and/or structure which constitutes a
nuisance will include, in said resolution, an adequate description of
the house, building, and/or structure; the name(s), if known, of the
owner(s) and mortgagee(s), and/or lien holder(s), thereof; and shall set
forth the reason, or reasons, said house, building, and/or structure is,
or has been, condemned as a nuisance.

      (5)   Posting. After a house, building, and/or structure has been
found, and declared, to be a nuisance, and condemned by resolution as
herein provided, a true, and certified, copy of said resolution will be
mailed to the owner(s) and mortgagee(s), and/or lien holder(s) thereof,
if the whereabouts of said owner(s) and mortgagee(s), and/or lien
holder(s) thereof, be known, or their last known address be known, and a
copy thereof shall be posted at a conspicuous place on said house,
building, and/or structure; provided, that if the owner(s) and
mortgagee(s), and/or lien holder(s), of said house, building, and/or
structure be unknown, or if his or her, or their, whereabouts, or last
known address, be unknown, the posting of the copy of said resolution,
as hereinabove provided, will suffice as notice of the condemnation.

      (6)   Removal. If the house, building, and/or structure
constituting a nuisance has not been torn down and removed, or said
nuisance otherwise abated, within 30 days after posting the true copy of
the resolution at a conspicuous place on said house, building, and/or
structure constituting the nuisance, it will be torn down, and/or
removed, by the Senior Code Enforcement Officer, or his or her duly
designated representative.

      (7)   Saleable material. The Senior Code Enforcement Officer, or
any other person, or persons, designated by him or her to tear down, and
remove, any such house, building, and/or structure constituting a
nuisance will ensure the removal thereof, and dispose of the same in
such a manner as deemed appropriate in the circumstances, and to that
end may, if the same have a substantial value, sell said house,
building, and/or structure, or any saleable material thereof, by public
sale to the highest bidder for cash, ten days’ notice thereof being
first given by one publication in some newspaper having a general
circulation in the city, to ensure its removal, and the abatement of the
nuisance.

      (8)   Proceeds. All proceeds of the sale of any such house,
building, and/or structure, or the proceeds of the sale of saleable
materials therefrom, and all fines collected from the provisions of this
subchapter shall be paid by the person, or persons, collecting the same
to the City Clerk-Treasurer. If any such house, building, and/or
structure, or the saleable materials thereof, be sold for an amount
which exceeds all costs incidental to the abatement of the nuisance
(including the cleaning up of the premises) by the city, plus any fine,
or fines, imposed, the balance thereof will be returned by the City
Clerk-Treasurer to the former owner, or owners, of such house, building,
and/or structure constituting the nuisance.

      (9)   Liens. If the city has any net costs in removal of any
house, building, or structure, the city shall place a lien on the
personal property or real estate property, as provided by A.C. §
14-54-904.

(Prior Code, § 5.04.07)

   (H)   Emergency procedures.

      (1)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of
this subchapter, whenever, in the opinion of the Senior Code Enforcement
Officer, there is imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the Code
Official shall order the necessary work to be done, including the
boarding up of openings, to render such structure temporarily safe
whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been instituted;
and shall cause such other action to be taken as the Code Official deems
necessary to meet such emergency.

      (2)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the Code
Official shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the
authority having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways,
and places adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from
being utilized.

      (3)   Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this division (H),
the Senior Code Enforcement Officer shall employ the necessary labor and
materials to perform the required work as expeditiously as possible.
Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work shall be paid by the
city. The City Attorney shall institute appropriate action against the
owner of the premises where the unsafe structure is, or was, located for
the recovery of such costs.

(Prior Code, § 5.04.08)

   (I)   Noises generally prohibited.

      (1)   Noises. The creating of any unreasonably loud, disturbing,
and unnecessary noise of such character, intensity, or duration as to be
detrimental to the life, or health, of any individual, or in disturbance
of the public peace and welfare, is prohibited.

      (2)   Unlawful noises. The following acts, among others, are
declared to be loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noises unlawful, but
this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:

         (a)   No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, any
motor vehicle, or motorcycle, not equipped with a muffler, or other
sound dissipative device, in good working order, and in constant
operation;

         (b)   No person shall sound any horn, or other auditory
signaling device, on, or in, any motor vehicle on any public
right-of-way, or public place, except as a warning of danger;

         (c)   Operating, or causing to operate, any sound amplification
device from within a vehicle so that the sound is plainly audible at a
distance of 30 feet, or more, from the vehicle, whether in a street, a
highway, an alley, parking lot, or driveway, whether public or private
property, is prohibited and declared to be a noise disturbance in
violation of this subchapter;

         (d)   No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, a motor
vehicle, or motorcycle, by rapidly advancing its throttle;

         (e)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, any type of audio
equipment, or any musical instrument in such a manner, or with such
volume, particularly during the hours between 10:30 p.m. and 7:30 a.m.,
as to annoy, or disturb, the quietness, comfort, or peace of any persons
in, or around, any office, hospital, or in any dwelling, hotel, or other
type of residence;

         (f)   Any group yelling, hooting, shouting out, or the playing
of any type, or audio equipment, on the public streets, at any time or
place, in such a manner as to annoy, or disturb, the quiet, comfort, or
peace of persons in any hospital, dwelling, hotel, or other type of
residence, or otherwise creates an annoyance, or problem;

         (g)   The keeping of any animal, bird, or fowl which, by
causing frequent, or long, continued noise shall disturb the comfort, or
repose, of any person in the vicinity;

         (h)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or vehicle so out
of repair, so loaded, or in such a manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise;

         (i)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin, or stop,
work, or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request, or proper city
authorities;

         (j)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street
adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church, or court while
the same is in session, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably
interferes with the workings, or sessions, thereof, or adjacent to, or
near, any residence; provided, however, that in case of emergencies when
the public health, safety, or general welfare is in danger, necessary
work may be done immediately by first securing a permit from the
Building Inspector, if it is obtainable, or if it is not first
obtainable, the necessary work may be done, and at the first opportunity
reported to the Building Inspector, who shall issue a permit effectively
retroactively to the beginning of the emergency; provided also, that
where underground repair, or construction, work is necessary adjacent
to, or in the vicinity of, a school, an institution of learning, a
church, a court, or hospital, the Building Inspector may issue a permit
for same, the work to be done at reasonable hours to be designated by
the Building Inspector;

         (k)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other instrument, or
device, for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to
any performance, show, or sale, or display of merchandise;

         (l)   A compression release engine brake (Jake Brake), or other
hydraulically operated device that converts a power producing diesel, or
gas, engine into a power absorbing retarding mechanism with a
correspondingly increased amount of noise emission, shall not be
engaged, or used, within the city limits, except in the case of failure,
or the service brake system, adverse weather conditions, or other
emergency necessitating the compression release engine brake's use. Fire
trucks, and those municipal vehicles equipped with the Quiet Brake and
Silent Partner System are exempted from the requirements of this
section; and

         (m)   The use of mechanical loudspeakers, or amplifiers, on
trucks, or other moving or standing vehicles, for advertising, or other
purposes.

(Prior Code, § 5.04.09)

   (J)   Construction allowed.

      (1)   Construction. Commercial and residential exterior and
interior construction work, including erection, excavation, demolition,
or repair of any building and its components, shall be allowed between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, and 1:00
p.m. to 7:00 p.m. on Sunday. Additional interior construction work shall
be allowed to be performed between the hours of 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.,
Monday through Saturday; provided, that all exterior openings are
completely covered.

         (a)   The construction hours shall be adhered to, except in the
case of urgent emergency in the interest of public health and safety,
and then only with written permission from the Building Inspector, which
permission may be granted for a period not to exceed 30 days while the
emergency continues. If an emergency arises when permission is not
obtainable, the necessary work may be done, and reported to the Building
Inspector at the earliest date that the office is open after the
emergency.

         (b)   If the Building Inspector should determine that the
public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection,
demolition, excavation, alteration, or repair, or any building within
the designated hours, and if he or she shall further determine that loss
of inconvenience would result to any party in interest, he or she may
grant permission for such work to be done within such hours upon
application being made at the time the permit for the work is obtained.

         (c)   The Code Enforcement Division may stop construction work
at any time when the work disrupts, or causes excessive disruptions, to
adjoining businesses or residential occupancies, or is found to be
detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens.

      (2)   Working hours permit. In cases where construction-related
work can only be performed other than the hours listed in division
(J)(1) above, a temporary work permit may be issued by the Building
Inspector. The applicant must obtain the permit prior to commencement of
work, and all referenced job construction permits must be obtained. If
approved, the permit may be issued from one to seven days. The applicant
must take all precautions to avoid disturbing other adjacent
occupancies. The Building Codes Division reserves the right to revoke
any temporary work permit if work disrupts, or causes excessive
disruptions, of adjoining businesses or residential occupancies, or is
found to be detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens.

      (3)   Excavations. This division (J) does not apply to:

         (a)   Any vehicle of the city while engaged upon necessary
public business;

         (b)   Excavations, or repairs, of bridges, streets, or highways
by, or on behalf of, the city, county, or state, when the public
welfare, and convenience, renders it impossible to perform such work
during the day;

         (c)   The reasonable use of amplifiers, or loudspeakers, in the
course of public addresses which are noncommercial in character;

         (d)   Necessary warning signals given by an ambulance operator,
or licensed physician, while answering an emergency call for medical
assistance;

         (e)   Construction work between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00
p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays in areas declared, by resolution of the
Board of Directors, to be disaster areas. For purposes of this division
(J), CONSTRUCTION WORK means the erection, including excavation,
demolition, alteration, or repair, of any building in a residential
district. Any resolution to declare an area a disaster area shall
include a map of the area, and a time period during which such
designation shall be effective; or

         (f)   Ordinances set forth pertaining to the red dirt mine
facilities.

(Prior Code, § 5.04.10)

(Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2023-07, passed 6-27-2023)
Penalty, see § 90.99

Cross-reference:

   Red dirt mining facilities, see §§ 114.01 through 114.99

§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.

   (A)   General. Where the following terms are not defined through the
methods authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily
accepted meanings, such as the context implies. Whenever the words
“dwelling unit”, “dwelling”, “premises”, “building”, “rooming house”,
“rooming unit”, “housekeeping unit”, or “story” are stated in this
subchapter, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the
words “or any part thereof”.

(Prior Code, § 5.05.01)

   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or
requires, a different meaning.

      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, regardless of whether
wrecked or inoperable, which is left on public, or private, property,
for a period of more than 72 hours, without approval from the property
owner to place the vehicle upon such property.

      APPROVED. Consented, or agreed to, in writing by the Senior Code
Enforcement Officer, or his or her proper designee.

      BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly, or
completely, below grade.

      BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures, including a bathtub
or shower.

      BEDROOM. Any room, or space, used, or intended to be used, for
sleeping purposes.

      BOAT. Any vessel initially designed for the carrying of
passengers, or cargo, upon the water, whether currently seaworthy or
not, and regardless of size or design, including, without limitation,
barges, motorboats, whether inboard or outboard, canoes, rowboats,
rafts, and sailboats.

      CARPORT. A roofed structure providing space for the parking of
motor vehicles, and enclosed on not more than two sides.

      CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any city employee who has been duly
sworn, and authorized, to uphold the ordinances of the city, and laws of
the state, related to property uses, maintenance, nuisances,
inspections, issuances of building permits, certifications and
licensing, and the like, within the municipal boundaries of the city.
All duly sworn law enforcement officers of the City Police Department
are authorized to exercise authority as CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.

      CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for human occupancy.

      DWELLING UNIT. Any room, or group of rooms, located within a
structure forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used,
or intended to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking, eating, and
sanitation by a household or family.

      EASEMENT. The portion of land, or property, reserved for present,
or future, use by a person, or agency, other than the legal fee owner(s)
of the property. The EASEMENT shall be permitted to be for use under,
on, or above a said lot, or lots.

      EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises, and on
adjoining property under the control of owners, or operators, of such
premises.

      EXTERMINATION. The control, and elimination, of insects, rats, or
other pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing, or
making inaccessible, materials that serves as their food; by poison
spraying, fumigating, and trapping; or by any other approved pest
elimination methods.

      GARBAGE. The animal, or vegetable, waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.

      GRAFFITI. Any inscription, word, figure, or design that is marked,
etched, scratched, drawn, painted, pasted, or otherwise affixed to, or
on, any structural component of any building, structure, or other
permanent facility regardless of the nature of the material of that
structural component, or the nature of the inscription, to the extent
that the same was not authorized in advance by the owner, or otherwise
deemed to be a public nuisance.

      GUARD. A building component, or a system of building components,
located at, or near, the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that
minimizes the possibility of a fall from the walking surface to a lower
level.

      HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping,
eating, or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage, or
utility spaces, and similar areas, are not considered HABITABLE SPACES.

      HISTORIC. Any existing buildings, or structures, designated by the
city, the state, or the United States government to be historic, or
located within a city historic district.

      HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room, or group of rooms, forming a single
habitable space equipped, and intended to be used for, living, sleeping,
cooking, and eating which does not contain, within such a unit, a
toilet, lavatory, and bathtub or shower.

      IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious, or
life-threatening, injury or death at any time.

      INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or
premises of insects, rats, vermin, or other pests.

      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon
the public streets for reasons including, but not limited to, being
unlicensed, uninsured, wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair, or
incapable of being moved under its own power. Such vehicle is also
considered an abandoned vehicle if left on public, or private, property
without authorization from the property owner for a period in excess of
72 hours.

      LABELED. Devices, equipment, appliances, or materials to which has
been affixed a label, seal, symbol, or other identifying mark of a
nationally recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency, or other
organization concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic
inspection of the production of the above-labeled items, and by whose
label the manufacturer attests to compliance with applicable nationally
recognized standards.

      LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide, or offer possession,
or occupancy, of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building,
premises, or structure by a person who is, or is not, the legal owner of
record thereof, pursuant to a written, or unwritten, lease, agreement,
or license, or pursuant to a recorded, or unrecorded, agreement of
contract for the sale of land.

      MOTOR VEHICLE. A machine of conveyance which is self-propelled and
designed to travel along the ground, and includes, but is not limited
to, automobiles, buses, electric scooters, mopeds, bicycles,
motorcycles, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf carts, or motor homes.

      NUISANCE. As defined in § 90.04(A)(1).

      OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building, or portion thereof,
is utilized or occupied.

      OCCUPANT. Any individual living, or sleeping, in a building, or
having possession of a space within a building.

      OPENABLE AREA. The part of a window, skylight, or door which is
available for unobstructed ventilation, and which opens directly to the
outdoors.

      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a
structure, or premises, which is let, or offered, for occupancy.

      OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm, or corporation having a
legal, or equitable, interest in the property; or recorded in the
official records of the state, county, or municipality as holding title
to the property; or otherwise having control of the property, including
the guardian of the estate of any such person, and the executor, or
administrator, of the estate of such person if ordered to take
possession of real property by a court.

      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, or any other
group acting as a unit.

      PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, easement, or public way,
including any structures thereon.

      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is
privately owned, and which is not defined as public property in this
section.

      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property in the city which is owned by a
governmental body, and includes buildings, parking lots, parks, streets,
sidewalks, rights-of-way, easements, and other similar property.

      PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley, or similar parcel of land
essentially unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded,
dedicated, or otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for
public use.

      REMOVAL. The act of clearing all material and debris whenever it
becomes necessary to demolish any building that has been condemned, and
found to be a nuisance by resolution of the City Council.

      RESIDENCE. A structure serving as a dwelling or home. For the
purposes of this subchapter, the term RESIDENCE includes DWELLING UNITS
and ROOMING HOUSES.

      ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged, or occupied, for lodging, with
or without meals, for compensation. Bed-and-breakfasts, boarding houses,
half-way houses, and hotels, as those terms are defined under the city
zoning ordinance, are included within the definition of a ROOMING HOUSE.

      ROOMING UNIT. Any room, or group of rooms, forming a single
habitable unit occupied, or intended to be occupied, for sleeping or
living, but not for cooking purposes.

      RUBBISH. Combustible, and noncombustible, waste materials, except
garbage; the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood,
coal, coke, and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons,
boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings,
tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, crockery, and dust, and other
similar materials.

      UNCUT WEEDS AND GRASS. See § 90.04(B)(1) for definition.

      SENIOR CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Head of the Code Enforcement
Department or, in his or her absence, the person who is directed, or
appointed, to temporarily assume the duties of the Head of the Code
Enforcement Department.

      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, or a portion
thereof.

      TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership, or group, whether or
not the legal owner of record, occupying a building, or portion thereof,
as a unit.

      TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet, or urinal, but not
a bathtub or shower.

      TRAILER. Any freewheeling object designed, or intended to be
pulled, or towed, behind a motor vehicle, regardless of whether wrecked
or inoperable, and regardless of whether currently inspected and/or
registered, including, without limitation, the following: boat trailers;
camper trailers; cargo trailers; special trailers for items such as golf
carts or motorcycles; utility trailers; and farm implements.

      VENTILATION. The natural, or mechanical, process of supplying
conditioned, or unconditioned, air to, or removing such air from, any
space.

      WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner; for example, generally
plumb, level, square, in-line, undamaged, and without marring adjacent
work.

      WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which does not have,
lawfully affixed thereto, an unexpired license plate, and the condition
of which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, incapable of
operation by its own power on a public street, or from which the wheels,
engine, transmission, or any substantial part thereof has been removed.

(Prior Code, § 5.05.02) (Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-9-2015)

§ 90.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.

   (A)   General.

      (1)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the
minimum conditions and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance
of structures, equipment, and exterior property.

      (2)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the
structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements,
except as otherwise provided for in this subchapter. A person shall not
occupy as owner-occupant, or permit another person to occupy premises,
which are not in a sanitary, and safe, condition, and which do not
comply with the requirements of this section. Occupants of a dwelling
unit, rooming unit, or housekeeping unit are responsible for keeping in
a clean, sanitary, and safe condition the part of the dwelling unit,
rooming unit, housekeeping unit, or premises which they occupy and
control.

      (3)   Vacant structures and land. All vacant structures, and
premises thereof, or vacant land, shall be maintained in a clean, safe,
secure, and sanitary condition, as provided herein, so as not to cause a
blighting problem, or adversely affect the public health, or safety.

(Prior Code, § 5.06.01)

   (B)   Exterior property areas.

      (1)   Sanitation. All exterior property, and premises, shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, and sanitary condition. The occupant shall
keep the part of the exterior property, which such occupant occupies or
controls, in a clean, and sanitary, condition.

      (2)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded, and
maintained, to prevent the erosion of soil, and to prevent the
accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within, any structure located
thereon.

      (3)   Illegal dumping. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
or corporation to drop, dispose of, throw, toss, or otherwise deposit
leaves, paper, debris, brush, limbs, grass, or other similar articles in
drainage ditches, curbs, and along gutters of city streets.

      (4)   Sediments and mud. All public roadways shall be kept clean
of sediment and soil erosion from soil disturbing activities.

         (a)   Any person engaging in soil disturbing activities within
the city limits shall be required to implement measures to minimize the
tracking of sediments, and mud, onto adjacent streets, and roadways, by
vehicles leaving the site.

         (b)   The following activities are specifically excluded from
the requirements of this division (B)(4): emergency street; storm
drainage; or utility repairs. The following properties are specifically
excluded from the requirements of this division (B)(4): approved
retention areas; and reservoirs.

         (c)   If a soil disturbing activity creates a violation, the
violator shall cleanup the material daily, or as frequently as needed,
to avoid a hazard or nuisance. If an activity is found in violation of
the provisions of this subchapter, the city’s appointed representative
shall issue a cease and desist order for all activities on the site
until the appropriate cleanup measures are implemented, and provisions
are made to prevent additional pollution. The city’s approval of
construction, building permit approvals, payments, release of payments,
or bonds, and final approvals, shall also be withheld, or revoked, until
a violation is corrected, and appropriate sediment control measures are
in place.

      (5)   Grass or weeds. Grass or weeds shall not exceed eight inches
in height in all zoning districts. This restriction will not apply to:

         (a)   Property that is zoned A-1, except when abutting
developed property. A-1 property shall be maintained with a 15-foot
buffer along the lot line adjacent to the developed property with grass
and weeds, and such buffer shall not exceed eight inches in height; and

         (b)   Areas specifically designated, or recognized, by the
city, the state, or the United States as wetlands, open spaces, natural
or wild flower areas, or other designated preservation areas.

      (6)   Rodent harborage. All structures and exterior property shall
be kept free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are
found, they shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes which
will not be injurious to human health. After extermination, proper
precautions shall be taken to eliminate rodent harborage, and prevent
reinfestation.

      (7)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans, or blowers
shall not discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors,
or other gaseous, or particulate, wastes directly upon abutting, or
adjacent, public or private property, or that of another tenant.

      (8)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including
detached garages, fences, and walls, shall be maintained structurally
sound and in good repair.

      (9)   Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations,
no inoperative, or unlicensed, motor vehicle shall be parked, kept, or
stored on any premises, and no motor vehicle shall, at any time, be in a
state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being
stripped or dismantled. Painting of motor vehicles is prohibited unless
conducted inside an approved spray booth.

         (a)   No person shall park, store, leave, or permit the
parking, storing, or leaving of any motor vehicle, and/or trailer of any
kind, which is wrecked or inoperable, whether attended or not, upon any
private property within the city, except as allowed by the following
exceptions:

            1.   Any subject item parked, or stored, within a building,
or enclosed garage, on private property;

            2.   Any subject item held in connection with a business
enterprise lawfully licensed by the city for servicing, and repair, of
subject items, and properly zoned, and operated, in an appropriate
business zone pursuant to the zoning ordinances of the city;

            3.   Any subject vehicle within a carport that is being
actively repaired on at least a weekly basis. Subject vehicles and its
parts when not being repaired shall be neatly, and completely, covered
with an opaque cover;

            4.   Inoperable vehicles deemed inoperable only due to not
having a current vehicle license plate, or vehicle registration tag, may
be stored in a covered carport; and/or

            5.   Inoperable vehicles may be stored on private property
when provided with a fitted, and maintained, cover designed for such
vehicle.

         (b)   Code Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to
remove inoperable motor vehicles on private property 30 days after
written notice has been affixed to the subject item. Such notice shall
state that the subject item is a nuisance, and order whoever has an
interest in the subject item to remove the item from the property. If
such nuisance is found upon private property, in addition to the
foregoing notice, a copy of such shall be placed on the residence or
business. The presence of such subject items on private property is
hereby declared a public nuisance, which may be abated in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter. Any inoperable vehicle sitting
on city streets can, and will be, removed immediately at the owner’s
expense.

         (c)   The exception to this division (B)(9) shall be a motor
vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul, including
body work; provided, that such work is performed inside a structure, or
similarly enclosed area designed, and approved, for such purposes.

      (10)   Defacement of property. No person shall willfully, or
wantonly, damage, mutilate, or deface any exterior surface of any
structure, or building, on any private, or public, property by placing
thereon any marking, carving, or graffiti. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to an approved state
of maintenance and repair.

(Prior Code, § 5.06.02)

   (C)   Swimming pools, spas, and hot tubs. Swimming pools, hot tubs,
and spas shall be maintained in a clean, and sanitary, condition, and in
good repair. (See A.C. § 14-54-901.)

(Prior Code, § 5.06.03)

   (D)   Exterior structure.

      (1)   General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in
good repair, structurally sound, and sanitary so as not to pose a threat
to the public health, safety, or welfare.

      (2)   Premises identification. Buildings shall have approved
address numbers placed in a position to be plainly legible, and visible,
from the street, or road, fronting the property. These numbers shall
contrast with their background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals
or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be a minimum of three inches in
height on residential structures, and shall be a minimum of four inches
in height on commercial structures.

(Prior Code, § 5.06.04)

   (E)   Rubbish and garbage.

      (1)   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. All exterior property
and premises of every structure shall be free from any accumulation of
rubbish or garbage.

      (2)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall
dispose of all rubbish in a clean, and sanitary, manner by placing such
rubbish in approved containers.

      (3)   Appliances and furniture. Appliances and furniture, and
similar equipment, not in operation shall not be discarded, abandoned,
or stored on premises outside of any enclosed building, such as a
storage shed or accessory building.

      (4)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall
dispose of garbage in a clean, and sanitary, manner by placing such
garbage in an approved garbage disposal facility, or an approved,
leak-proof garbage container.

         (a)   No trash or garbage container shall be stored in a front,
or side, yard abutting a street so as to be closer to the street than
the building on the lot, except on trash days.

         (b)   Garbage and trash containers must be placed within five
feet of the curb no earlier than 5:00 p.m. the day before, and removed
before 7:00 p.m. the day garbage is picked up.

(Prior Code, § 5.06.05)

   (F)   Sanitary drainage system.

      (1)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected
to either a public sewer system, or to an approved private sewage
disposal system.

      (2)   Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste, and sewer
line shall function properly, and be kept free from obstructions, leaks,
and defects.

(Prior Code, § 5.06.06)

(Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-9-2015) Penalty, see § 90.99

§ 90.04 NUISANCES.

   (A)   General.

      (1)   Intent. It is the intent of this subchapter to prevent, and
abate, nuisances within the municipal boundaries of the city. For the
purposes of this suchapter, the word NUISANCE is defined as any act,
omission, or property condition that is detrimental to the health,
safety, and welfare of the public in that it:

         (a)   Injures, or endangers, the comfort, repose, health, or
safety of others;

         (b)   Is offensive to the senses;

         (c)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to
obstruct, or renders dangerous for passage, any public, or private,
street, highway, sidewalk, stream, ditch, or drainage;

         (d)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or the
use, of property; or

         (e)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of
life and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of
others.

      (2)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, or entity,
to cause, permit, maintain, or allow the creation, or maintenance, of a
nuisance.

      (3)   Illustrative enumeration of a nuisance. The maintaining,
using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be, or remain, on
any public, or private, property of any of the following items,
conditions, or actions is hereby declared to be, and constitute, a
nuisance; provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed, or
construed, to be conclusive, limiting, or restrictive:

         (a)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation;

         (b)   Accumulations, or storage, of rubbish, garbage,
materials, metals, lumber, tires, and other materials;

         (c)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice,
snakes, and other vermin;

         (d)   Dilapidated structures;

         (e)   All unnecessary, or unauthorized, noises and annoying
vibrations, including animal noises;

         (f)   All disagreeable, or obnoxious, odors and stenches, as
well as the conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to
the emission, or generation, of such odors and stenches;

         (g)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a
reasonable time after death;

         (h)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream,
lake, canal, or body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery,
industrial wastes, or other substances;

         (i)   Any building, structure, or other place, or location,
where any activity which is in violation of local, state, or federal law
is conducted, performed, or maintained;

         (j)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted, or
maintained, on any lot, or piece of ground;

         (k)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders in
unreasonable quantities;

         (l)   Graffiti;

         (m)   Inoperable, or abandoned, motor vehicles;

         (n)   The use of tarpaulins, canvas, plastic, oil cloth,
sheeting, and other similar materials as fencing, or to shield, or
enclose any structure (including, without limitation, openings for
windows, doors, walls, roofs, garage doors, or carports), except when
temporarily necessary to perform repairs under a properly-issued
building permit; and

         (o)   Permanent, or temporary, basketball goals (except those
approved by the city) on any public street, or on any right-of-way
adjacent to a public street.

(Prior Code, § 5.07.01)

   (B)   Unsightly appearances.

      (1)   Uncut weeds, grass, and other unsightly, and unsanitary,
articles. All property owners and occupants within the municipal
boundaries of the city are required to cut weeds and grass, remove
garbage, rubbish, and other unsightly, and unsanitary, articles and
things from their property, and to eliminate, fill up, or remove
stagnant pools of water, or any other unsanitary thing, place, or
condition which might become a breeding place for mosquitoes, flies, and
germs harmful to the health of the community. For specific requirements
related to the required maintenance of grass and weeds, refer to §
90.03(B)(5).

      (2)   Nuisance structures. Any building, or other structure, which
is in such a dilapidated condition that it is unsafe, or unfit, for
human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary condition that it is a
menace to the health, or safety, of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located, shall constitute a nuisance.

         (a)   An unsafe structure is one that is found to be dangerous
to the life, health, property, or safety of the public, or the occupants
of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect, or
warn, occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains
unsafe conditions due to lack of abandonment or lack of maintenance, or
unsafe equipment, or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally
unsafe, or of such faulty construction, or unstable foundation, that
partial, or complete, collapse is possible.

         (b)   A structure is unfit for human occupancy whenever the
Code Official finds that such structure is unsafe, unlawful or, because
of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair, or lacks
maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities, or other essential equipment required by this subchapter, or
because the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the
occupants of the structure, or to the public.

         (c)   An unlawful structure is one found in whole, or in part,
to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this subchapter, or
was erected, altered, or occupied contrary to law.

(Prior Code, § 5.07.02)

   (C)   Additional remedies.

      (1)   Authorized abatement. If the owner of any lot, or other real
property, within the city shall neglect, or refuse, to remove, abate, or
eliminate any condition, violation, or prohibition as may be provided
for in this subchapter, after having been given a notice of violation
with seven days’ notice, in writing, to do so by the appropriate city
official, the city is hereby authorized to do whatever is necessary to
correct the condition, including, but not limited to, entering upon the
property and having such weeds, rank grass, or other vegetation cut, and
removed, or eliminating any unsanitary and unsightly condition, or
causing necessary repairs to be made, and charging the cost thereof to
the owner of such premises, which shall constitute a lien thereon. The
above mentioned seven days’ notice shall be calculated by counting the
first day of the seven-day period as the day after written notice is
given to the owner, by counting every calendar day, including weekends
and holidays, and by establishing the deadline to take the above
required actions as 11:59 p.m. on the seventh day. Condemnations shall
follow the procedures established in § 90.01(G). The city reserves the
right to secure a priority cleanup lien pursuant to A.C. § 14-54-903.

      (2)   Authorized removal of basketball goals. Code Enforcement
Officers shall have the authority to order the immediate removal of any
permanent, or temporary, basketball goal (unless approved by the city)
that is on any public street, or on any right-of-way adjacent to a
public street. If the apparent owner of the basketball goal is unknown,
unavailable, or unwilling to remove the basketball goal, a Code
Enforcement Officer may cause the goal to be removed.

      (3)   Vacating of unfit, or unsafe, structures and utility
services. Any dwelling, or dwelling unit, declared as unfit for human
habitation, or unsafe, by the City Code Enforcement Department as so
designated, and placarded, by a Code Enforcement Officer, shall be
vacated within seven days after notice of such action has been given by
the Building Official to both the owner and occupant of the building. On
the eighth day after said notice, the Code Enforcement Department shall
notify all utility services that no such services shall be provided to
the dwelling, or dwelling unit. After utility services are cutoff, no
further services shall be made available until a rehabilitation permit
is obtained, or until the Director of Code Enforcement notifies
utilities that service may be provided to the dwelling, or dwelling
unit.

(Prior Code, § 5.07.03)

   (D)   Placarding.

      (1)   General. Upon failure of the owner, or person responsible,
to comply with the notice of violation for a nuisance structure, or
equipment, within the time given, the Code Official shall then post on
the premises, or on the defective equipment, a placard bearing the word
“NUISANCE”, and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment, or removing the placard.

      (2)   Placard removal. The Code Official shall remove unfit for
human habitation, or unsafe structure, placards whenever the defect, or
defects, upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based
have been eliminated. Any person who defaces, or removes, a condemnation
placard without the approval of the Code Official shall be subject to
the penalties provided by this subchapter.

(Prior Code, § 5.07.04)

   (E)   Prohibited occupancy. Any occupied structure condemned, and
placarded, by the Code Official shall be vacated, as ordered by the Code
Official. Any person who shall occupy placarded premises, or shall
operate placarded equipment, and any owner, or any person responsible
for the premises, who shall let anyone occupy placarded premises, or
operate placarded equipment, shall be liable for the penalties provided
by this subchapter.

(Prior Code, § 5.07.05)

(Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-9-2015) Penalty, see § 90.99

MOTOR VEHICLES

§ 90.15 NON-OPERATING VEHICLES.

   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or
requires, a different meaning.

      MOTOR VEHICLE. A car, automobile, truck, bus, omnibus, tractor
truck, or other vehicle licensed to travel upon the roads of the state,
or subject to licensing for travel, or intended as a carrier for goods
and persons from point to point which uses motive power derived from a
motor or engine, especially an internal combustion engine, or rotary
engine and a wankel.

      NON-OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLES. A motor vehicle with one, or more,
of the following characteristics:

         (a)   The engine, or motor, is inoperative;

         (b)   Any, or all, of the wheels are removed;

         (c)   The motor vehicle has flats on two, or more, tires;

         (d)   Major operating components are missing, including, but
not limited to: windshield glass; door glass; fenders; gauges; steering
wheel; tie rods; springs; drive train; gear box; rear end; or any parts
connected with the steering geometry of the motor vehicle, or the seats
are removed;

         (e)   Any of the major operating components, such as those
listed in division (d) above, are in such damaged condition so as to
make the motor vehicle useless; or

         (f)   The motor vehicle does not have a current state
registration.

(Prior Code, § 8.24.01)

   (B)   Prohibiting non-operating vehicles. It is unlawful to have a
non-operating motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the city.

(Prior Code, § 8.24.02)

   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to
apply to:

      (1)   Any motor vehicle that can be started, and moved, under its
own power on demand;

      (2)   Motorcycles and motor bikes;

      (3)   Antique automobiles; provided, the vehicle has an antique
license as by law required; and

      (4)   Temporarily disabled motor vehicles; provided, they are
restored to running condition within 30 days from date of disablement.

(Prior Code, § 8.24.03)

   (D)   Violators.

      (1)   A person shall be deemed in violation of this section if:

         (a)   Such person owns, or has registered to him or her, a
non-operating motor vehicle that is in a prohibited area within the
terms of this section; or

         (b)   Such person owns property that non-operating motor
vehicles are placed, parked, or found resting on in a prohibited area
within the terms of this section.

      (2)   It shall be a prima facie case that the record owner is the
owner of property in question.

      (3)   It shall be a prima facie case that the registered owner of
a motor vehicle is the owner of the motor vehicle.

(Prior Code, § 8.24.05)

(Ord. 2003-15, passed - -) Penalty, see § 90.99

§ 90.16 ENGINE BRAKES.

   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall use, or engage, a compression
release engine brake, or other hydraulically-operated device that
converts a power producing diesel, or gas engine, into a power absorbing
retarding mechanism with a correspondingly increased amount of noise
emission within the corporate limits of the city, except in the case of
failure of the service brake system, adverse weather conditions, or
other alternative emergency stopping situations necessitating the use of
the compression release engine brake.

(Prior Code, § 7.36.01)

   (B)   Exemption. Fire trucks, emergency vehicles, and those municipal
vehicles equipped with the Quiet Brake and Silent Partner System are
exempted from the requirements of this section.

(Prior Code, § 7.36.02)

   (C)   Signage. The Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, is hereby
authorized, and directed, to erect appropriate signs, in accordance with
the State Highway Transportation Department requirements, that
non-emergency use of unmuffled engine brakes is prohibited within the
corporate limits of the city.

(Prior Code, § 7.36.04)

(Ord. 2014-09, passed - -)

OPEN BURNING

§ 90.30 REGULATIONS.

   (A)   No person, or business, shall burn any tires, wiring, plastics,
or any other material which emits toxic smoke, or gases, within the city
limits.

   (B)   No person, or business, shall burn brush, leaves, or household
trash in large amounts for any other person, other than their own
personal household trash, leaves, or brush.

   (C)   Any person, or business, burning household trash shall burn in
a container with a cover which will suppress sparks in order to provide
a minimal amount of safety when burning.

(Prior Code, § 7.24.01) (Ord. 97, passed - -)

§ 90.31 AUTHORITY.

   The Fire Chief, or officer of the Fire Department, shall have the
authority to extinguish any fire he or she deems hazardous, and shall
have the authority to issue a summons, or citation, to any persons, or
firm, he or she finds in violation of this subchapter.

(Prior Code, § 7.24.02) (Ord. 97, passed - -)

§ 90.32 DEFENSE.

   Any representative of a firm, or individual, found to be violating
this subchapter shall be afforded a defense if such person was ordered
to set fire to material prohibited in this subchapter by his or her
supervisor, or boss. In the event the arresting officer has reasonable
grounds to believe that such person was acting on directives from his or
her superior, the officer may issue a summons, or citation, to the firm
name, and may be signed by any employee of the firm, binding said firm
to appear in court to answer the charge.

(Prior Code, § 7.24.04) (Ord. 97, passed - -)

§ 90.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which
no specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to § 10.99.

   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided, any person, firm, or
corporation violating any of the several provisions of § 90.01(D) shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of $25. If the violation
continuous in nature, each day such violation shall be permitted to
continue shall be considered a separate offense, and shall be punishable
as such.

      (2)   The penalty for subsequent offenses shall be:

         (a)   Fifty dollars for the second offense that occurs within
12 months of the prior offense;

         (b)   One hundred dollars for the third offense that occurs
within 12 months of prior offenses; and

         (c)   Two hundred dollars for the fourth, and all subsequent,
offense that occur within 12 months of prior offenses.

(Prior Code, § 5.04.04)

   (C)   (1)   For violation of § 90.01(G), a fine of not less than
$250, nor more than $500, is hereby imposed against the owner(s) of any
house, building, and/or structure found, and declared, to be a nuisance
by resolution of the City Council 30 days after the same has been so
found, and declared, to be a nuisance, and for each day thereafter said
nuisance be not abated constitutes a separate, and distinct, offense
punishable by a fine of $250 for each said separate, and distinct,
offense; provided, the notice, as herein provided in § 90.01(F) hereof,
has been given within ten days after said house, building, and/or
structure has been, by resolution, found, and declared, to be a
nuisance.

      (2)   In the event it is deemed advisable by the City Council that
a particular house, building, and/or structure be judicially declared to
be a nuisance by a court having jurisdiction of such matters, the City
Council is hereby authorized to employ an attorney to bring such an
action for said purpose in the name of the city, and the only notice to
be given to the owner(s) and mortgagee(s), and/or lien holder(s), of any
such house, building, and/or structure sought to be judicially declared
to be a nuisance will be that as now provided for by law in such cases
in Circuit Court. When any such house, building, and/or structure has
been declared judicially to be a nuisance by a court of competent
jurisdiction, a fine of $100 is hereby imposed against the owner(s)
thereof from the date said finding is made by the court, and for each
day thereafter said nuisance be not abated constitutes a continuing
offense punishable by a fine of $100 per day.

(Prior Code, § 5.04.07)

   (D)   Any violation of § 90.03(B)(4) shall be considered an offense
punishable by a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500, and each
day of violation may be considered a separate offense.

(Prior Code, § 5.06.02)

   (E)   A violation of § 90.15 is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor,
and punishable by a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $100, or by
a jail sentence of one to ten days. Each day a non-operating motor
vehicle is upon the premises of a person shall constitute a separate
offense.

(Prior Code, § 8.24.04)

   (F)   Violation of § 90.16 shall be a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction be subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $100
for a first offense, and a fine of not less than $100, nor more than
$500 for second, or subsequent, offenses within one year of the previous
conviction.

(Prior Code, § 7.36.03)

   (G)   Any person, or firm, or any person, or representative, of a
firm, or individual found to be in violation of §§ 90.30 through 90.32
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $300 for
the first offense. Such person, or firm, or person acting on behalf of a
person, or firm, shall be fined not less than $150, nor more than $500
for the second offense. Persons, or firms, found guilty of a third, and
subsequent, offense shall be fined not less than $500, nor more than
$1,000, or imprisoned in the County Jail for a period not to exceed 30
days, or both fines and imprisonment may be imposed.

(Prior Code, § 7.24.03)

(Ord. 97, passed - -; Ord. 2003-15, passed - -; Ord. 2014-09, passed -
-)

CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS

Section

Dogs

   91.01   Definitions

   91.02   Care

   91.03   Vaccination; harness or collar

   91.04   License fee

   91.05   Confinement of dogs

   91.06   Incidents of dog bites to humans

   91.07   Prevention of spread of rabies

   91.08   Barking of dogs

   91.09   Release of animals

 

   91.99   Penalty

DOGS

§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.

   AT LARGE. Any dog not confined to the premises of the owner, or under
the restraint of a person capable of controlling the animal.

   DOG. A member of the canine species.

   OWNER. Any person, corporation, partnership, or any other entity
owning, keeping, or harboring a dog within the city. This subchapter
shall not apply to law enforcement who have jurisdiction in the city and
are handling canines for law enforcement purposes.

   RESTRAINT. Confinement of a dog to the owner's property, or, when off
the owner's property, to be under control by leash. Hunting dogs, when
accompanied by their owner on a hunt, are considered to be under
reasonable RESTRAINT, as long as the animal has affixed to it a collar
with a hunting tag and a current rabies vaccination tag. Under this
circumstance, the owner will not be subject to a fine unless the animal
has caused damage.

   STATE RABIES RULES AND REGULATIONS. A set of guidelines which were
adopted by the State Board of Health on January 28, 1971, the amendments
thereto which were adopted by the same board on July 24, 1975, and such
other amendments as may hereafter be adopted.

   STRAY. Any dog which does not have affixed to it a collar with a
current rabies vaccination tag attached.

   VACCINATION. The injection of an anti-rabies vaccine in the manner,
and frequency, set forth in the State Rabies Control Act, being A.C.
20-19-301, administered by a licensed veterinarian.

(Prior Code, § 6.04.01) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -; Ord. 2023-01, passed
2-14-2023)

§ 91.02 CARE.

   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide his or her dog(s) with
sufficient wholesome, and nutritious, food, water in sufficient
quantities, proper air, shelter space, and protection from the weather,
veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, and humane care and
treatment, as provided by state law.

   (B)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload,
overwork, or otherwise abuse a dog or cause, instigate, or permit any
dogfight, or other combat between animals, or between animals and
humans, as provided by state law.

(Prior Code, § 6.04.02) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -) Penalty, see § 91.99

§ 91.03 VACCINATION; HARNESS OR COLLAR.

   All dogs to which this subchapter applies shall:

   (A)   Be vaccinated against rabies by a regularly-licensed veterinary
surgeon; and

   (B)   Have a collar, or harness, to which is affixed a current rabies
vaccination tag, which attests to the rabies vaccination of the dog
wearing it.

(Prior Code, § 6.04.03) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -)

§ 91.04 LICENSE FEE.

   Any person owning, maintaining, or operating commercial kennels, or
dog breeding establishments, where dogs are kept confined on the
premises of such kennels, or establishments, or on a leash, shall pay an
annual license fee of $15, said fee to be paid to the designee of the
city on April 30 of each year, or within 30 days after the commencement
of operation of such commercial kennel, or breeding establishment.

(Prior Code, § 6.04.04) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -)

§ 91.05 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS.

   No owner of a dog, whether vaccinated or unvaccinated, licensed or
unlicensed, shallow allow such dog, or dogs, to run at large within the
corporate limits of the city.

(Prior Code, § 6.04.05) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -) Penalty, see § 91.99

§ 91.06 INCIDENTS OF DOG BITES TO HUMANS.

   As required by the State Rabies Control Act, being A.C. 20-19-301,
all incidents of persons being bitten by dogs shall immediately be
reported to the County Health Department.

(Prior Code, § 6.04.06) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -)

§ 91.07 PREVENTION OF SPREAD OF RABIES.

   In the event of the prevalence of rabies to such an extent as, in the
discretion of the Mayor, makes such action advisable, the Mayor may, by
proclamation, require that all dogs owned, kept, or harbored, in the
city be kept confined upon the premises of the owners of such dogs for
such time as may be designated in such proclamation, and such
proclamation to take effect upon publication thereof by the Mayor in a
newspaper having a general bona fide circulation in the city.

(Prior Code, § 6.04.08) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -)

§ 91.08 BARKING OF DOGS.

   No owner shall keep any dog which by loud, frequent, or habitual
barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy, or disturb, any neighborhood.

(Prior Code, § 6.04.09) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -) Penalty, see § 91.99

§ 91.09 RELEASE OF ANIMALS.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly release any animal
within the corporate limits of the city.

(Prior Code, § 6.04.10) (Ord. 2013-3, passed - -) Penalty, see § 91.99

§ 91.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating, or aiding in, or abetting the violation
of any provision of this subchapter, or counterfeiting, or forging, any
certificate, permit, or tag, or making any misrepresentation in any
matter prescribed herein, or resisting, obstructing, or impeding any
authorized city official, or who removes a tag from a dog for purposes
of destroying, or concealing, its identity, is guilty of a misdemeanor
offense.

   (B)   Other than the violation set forth in § 91.09, for a first or
second offense, a person shall be fined not less than $100, nor more
than $500, plus restitution owed. For a third, and subsequent, offense,
a person shall be fined not less than $500, and not more than $1,000,
except that if an act prohibited herein, or rendered unlawful is, in its
nature, continuous in respect to time, the fine for allowing continuance
thereof in violation of the subchapter shall not exceed $500 for each
day that the same is unlawfully continued, plus restitution owed.

(Prior Code, § 6.04.11)

   (C)   Any person in violation of § 91.09 shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be subject to a fine of no less than
$500, and no more than $1,000.

(Prior Code, § 6.04.10)

(Ord. 2013-3, passed - -)

CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION

Section

   92.01   Park hours

   92.02   Littering prohibited

   92.03   Alcoholic beverages prohibited

   92.04   Removal of natural resources prohibited

   92.05   Motorized vehicles prohibited

   92.06   Fire generally prohibited

   92.07   Unleashed pets prohibited

   92.08   Facility reservations

   92.09   Vendor, solicitor permits

 

   92.99   Penalty

§ 92.01 PARK HOURS.

   The hours of operation for the city’s parks and recreational
facilities are 6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. No person shall be permitted to
enter a city park, or recreational facility, between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless that person has obtain prior written
permission from the city. Such permission may be obtained by following
the same procedures for reserving city parks, or recreational
facilities.

(Prior Code, § 12.04.01) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)

§ 92.02 LITTERING PROHIBITED.

   No person shall leave, or dispose of, trash or other waste in the
city’s parks, or recreational facilitates, except as permitted, and
provided, in designated receptacles.

(Prior Code, § 12.04.02) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)

§ 92.03 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.

   No person shall bring, or possess, alcoholic beverages in the city’s
parks, or recreational facilities.

(Prior Code, § 12.04.03) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)

§ 92.04 REMOVAL OF NATURAL RESOURCES PROHIBITED.

   No person shall remove any rocks, plants, minerals, or wildlife from
the city’s parks, or recreational facilities.

(Prior Code, § 12.04.04) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)

§ 92.05 MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.

   No person shall operate, or park, a motorized vehicle in the city’s
parks, or recreational facilities, except on designated pathways,
roadways, and parking areas.

(Prior Code, § 12.04.05) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)

§ 92.06 FIRES GENERALLY PROHIBITED.

   No person shall make, or otherwise cause, a fire in the city’s parks,
or recreational facilities, except in designated fire pits or grilling
equipment.

(Prior Code, § 12.04.06) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)

§ 92.07 UNLEASHED PETS PROHIBITED.

   Pets are generally allowed in the city’s parks, and recreational
facilities; however, all pets must be accompanied by a responsible
person, and must be kept on a leash at all times. The owners, or
persons, accompanying a pet must cleanup after their pets.

(Prior Code, § 12.04.07) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)

§ 92.08 FACILITY RESERVATIONS.

   (A)   The city’s parks and recreation facilities may be reserved for
special occasions by the citizens, or residents, of the city.

   (B)   Any person desiring a reservation must send a written request
to the city at least two weeks in advance of the proposed reservation
date.

   (C)   The city will respond, in writing, within one week of receiving
the reservation request.

(Prior Code, § 12.04.08) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)

§ 92.09 VENDOR, SOLICITOR PERMITS.

   No person shall sell goods, or otherwise solicit, for commercial
purposes within the city’s parks or recreational facilities without
prior written permission from the city. Such permission may be obtained
by following the same procedures for reserving municipal parks.

(Prior Code, § 12.04.09) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)

§ 92.99 PENALTY.

   Any person who violates a provision, or terms, of this chapter shall
be guilty of a criminal violation. Each violation of this chapter shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter, and shall be punishable
by a fine of up to $100, in addition to the cost to repair any damages
caused to the city’s parks or recreational facilities.

(Prior Code, § 12.04.10) (Ord. 2013-12, passed - -)

CHAPTER 93: EQUAL OPPORTUNITY HOUSING

Section

   93.01   Policy

   93.02   Definitions

   93.03   Unlawful practice

   93.04   Discrimination in sale, rental of housing

   93.05   Discrimination in financing of housing

   93.06   Discrimination in provision of brokerage

   93.07   Exemption

   93.08   Administration

   93.09   Education, conciliation

   93.10   Enforcement

   93.11   Investigations; subpoenas, giving of evidence

   93.12   Enforcement of private persons

   93.13   Interference, coercion, intimidation

   93.14   Intimidation in fair cases

 

   93.99   Penalty

§ 93.01 POLICY.

   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for fair housing throughout its jurisdiction.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.01) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)

§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.

   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04, 93.05, or 93.06.

   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by
one, or more, families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale,
or lease for the construction, or location, thereon of any such
building, structure, or portion thereof.

   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.

   PERSON. Includes one, or more, individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives,
mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated
organizations, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, and
fiduciaries.

   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to
grant for a consideration, the right to occupy premises owned by the
occupant.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.02) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)

§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.

   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, and § 93.07, the
prohibitions against discrimination in the sale, or rental, of housing
set forth in § 93.04 shall apply to:

   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below;

   (B)   Nothing in § 93.04 shall apply to:

      (1)   Any single-family house sold, or rented, by an owner;
provided, that such private individual owner does not own more than
three such single-family houses at any one time; provided further, that
in the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a private
individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale, or
who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale,
the exemption granted by this division (B) shall apply only with respect
to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided, further, that
such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest in,
nor is there owned, or reserved, on his or her behalf, under any
express, or voluntary, agreement, title to, or any right to, all, or a
portion, of the proceeds from the sale, or rental, of more than three
such single-family houses at any one time; provided, further, that the
sale, or rental, of any such single-family house shall be excepted from
the application of this chapter only if such house is sold or rented:

         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales, or rental,
facilities, or the sales, or rental, services of any real estate broker,
agent, or salesman, or of such facilities, or services, of any person in
the business of selling, or renting, dwellings, or of any employee, or
agent, of any such broker, agent, salesperson, or person; and

         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after
notice of any advertisement, or written notice, in violation of §
93.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit
the use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and
other such professional assistance as necessary to perfect, or transfer,
the title.

      (2)   Rooms, or units, in dwellings containing living quarters
occupied, or intended to be occupied, by no more than four families
living independently of each other, if the owner actually maintains, and
occupies, one of such living quarters as his or her residence.

   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling, or renting, dwellings if:

      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated
as principal in three, or more, transactions involving the sale, or
rental, of any dwelling, or any interest therein;

      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated
as agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence,
in providing sales, or rental, facilities, or sales, or rental, services
in two, or more, transactions involving the sale, or rental, of any
dwelling, or any interest therein; or

      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed, or
intended, for occupancy by, or occupied by, five, or more, families.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.03) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -) Penalty, see § 93.99

§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN SALE, RENTAL OF HOUSING.

   As made applicable by § 93.03, and except as exempted by §§ 93.03(B)
and 93.07, it is unlawful:

   (A)   To refuse to sell, or rent, after the making of a bona fide
offer, or to refuse to negotiate for the sale, or rental, of, or
otherwise make unavailable, or deny, a dwelling to any person because of
race, color, religion, or national origin;

   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale, or rental, of a dwelling, or in the provision of
services, or facilities, in connection therewith, because of race,
color, religion, or national origin;

   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published, any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the
sale, or rental, of a dwelling that indicates any preference,
limitation, or discrimination based on race, color, religion, or
national origin, or an intention to make any such preference,
limitation, or discrimination;

   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale,
or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available; and/or

   (E)   For profit, to induce, or attempt to induce, any person to
sell, or rent, any dwelling by representations regarding the entry, or
prospective entry, into the neighborhood of a person, or persons, of a
particular race, color, religion, or national origin.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.04) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -) Penalty, see § 93.99

§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN FINANCING OF HOUSING.

   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association,
insurance company, or other corporation, association, firm, or
enterprise whose business consists in whole, or in part, in the making
of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan, or other financial
assistance, to a person applying therefor for the purpose of purchasing,
constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan, or other
financial assistance, because of the race, color, religion, or national
origin of such person, or of any person associated with him or her in
connection with such loan or other financial assistance, or the purposes
of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present, or
prospective, owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling, or
dwellings, in relation to which such loan, or other financial
assistance, is to be made or given; provided, that nothing contained in
this section shall impair the scope, or effectiveness, of the exception
contained in § 93.03(B).

(Prior Code, § 15.16.05) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -) Penalty, see § 93.99

§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN PROVISION OF BROKERAGE.

   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or
participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to
the business of selling, or renting, dwellings, or to discriminate
against him or her in the terms, or conditions, of such access,
membership, or participation, on account of race, color, religion, or
national origin.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.06) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -) Penalty, see § 93.99

§ 93.07 EXEMPTION.

   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution, or organization,
operated, supervised, or controlled by, or in conjunction with, a
religious organization, association, or society, from limiting the sale,
rental, or occupancy of dwellings which it owns, or operates, for other
than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or from
giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion is
restricted on account of race, color, or national origin. Nor shall
anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which, as an incident to its primary purpose, or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns, or operates, for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental, or occupancy, of such
lodgings to its members, or from giving preference to its members.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.07) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)

§ 93.08 ADMINISTRATION.

   (A)   The authority, and responsibility, for administering this
chapter shall be in the Chief Executive Officer of the city.

   (B)   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of these
functions, duties, and powers to employees, or agents, of the city, or
to boards of such employees, including functions, duties, and powers
with respect to investigating, conciliating, hearing, determining,
ordering, certifying, reporting, or otherwise acting as to any work,
business, or matter under this chapter. The Chief Executive Officer
shall, by rule, prescribe such rights of appeal from the decisions of
his or her hearing examiners to other hearing examiners, or to other
officers in the city, to boards of officers, or to himself or herself,
as shall be appropriate, and in accordance, with law.

   (C)   All executive departments, and agencies, shall administer their
programs, and activities, relating to housing and urban development in a
manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter, and shall
cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer to further such purposes.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.08) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)

§ 93.09 EDUCATION, CONCILIATION.

   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive
Officer shall commence such educational, and conciliatory, activities as
will further the purposes of this chapter. He or she shall call
conferences of persons in the housing industry, and other interested
parties, to acquaint them with the provisions of this chapter, and his
or her suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor with their
advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance, and of enforcement.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.09) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)

§ 93.10 ENFORCEMENT.

   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice, or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably
injured by a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur
(hereafter “person aggrieved”), may file a complaint with the Chief
Executive Officer. Complaints shall be in writing, and shall contain
such information, and be in such form, as the Chief Executive Officer
requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the Chief Executive Officer
shall furnish a copy of the same to the person, or persons, who
allegedly committed, or is/was about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice.

      (1)   Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or within 30
days after the expiration of any period of reference under division (C)
below, the Chief Executive Officer shall investigate the complaint, and
give notice, in writing, to the person aggrieved whether he or she
intends to resolve it.

      (2)   If the Chief Executive Officer decides to resolve the
complaints, he or she shall proceed to try to eliminate, or correct, the
alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of
conference, conciliation, and persuasion.

      (3)   Nothing said, or done, in the course of such informal
endeavors may be made public, or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned.

   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180
days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred.
Complaints shall be in writing, and shall state the facts upon which the
allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints
may be reasonably, and fairly, amended at any time. A respondent may
file an answer to the complaint against him or her, and with the leave
of the Chief Executive Officer, which shall be granted whenever it would
be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his or her answer at any
time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.

   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Chief
Executive Officer, he or she has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development. The Chief Executive Officer will assist
in filing.

   (D)   If the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person
aggrieved may, within 30 days hereafter commence a civil action, in any
appropriate court, against the respondent named in the complaint, to
enforce the rights granted, or protected, by this chapter, insofar as
such rights relate to the subject of the complaint. If the court finds
that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred, or is about to
occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice, or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.

   (E)   In proceedings brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.

   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial,
the Chief Executive Officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to
obtain voluntary compliance.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.10) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)

§ 93.11 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS, GIVING OF EVIDENCE.

   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Chief Executive Officer
shall have access, at all reasonable times, to premises, records,
documents, individuals, and other evidence, or possible sources of
evidence, and may examine, record, and copy such materials, and take,
and record, the testimony, or statements, of such persons as are
reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that the Chief Executive Officer first complies with the
provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and
seizures. The Chief Executive Officer may issue subpoenas to compel his
or her access to, or the production of, such materials, or the
appearance of such persons, and may issue interrogatories to a
respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as
would apply if the subpoenas, or interrogatories, were issued, or
served, in aid of a civil action in the United States District Court for
the district in which the investigation is taking place. The Chief
Executive Officer may administer oaths.

   (B)   Upon written application to the Chief Executive Officer, a
respondent shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of
subpoenas by, and in the name of, the Chief Executive Officer to the
same extent, and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas issued by
the Chief Executive Officer himself or herself. Subpoenas issued at the
request of a respondent shall show, on their face, the name and address
of such respondent, and shall state that they were issued at his or her
request.

   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Chief Executive Officer
shall be entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses
in proceedings in United States district courts. Fees payable to a
witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the request of a respondent
shall be paid by him or her.

   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person,
such person may petition the Chief Executive Officer to revoke, or
modify, the subpoena. The Chief Executive Officer shall grant the
petition if he or she finds that the subpoena requires appearance, or
attendance, at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires
production of evidence which does not relate to any matter under
investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient particularity
the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous, or
for other good reason.

   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Chief
Executive Officer, or person at whose request it was issued, may
petition for enforcement in the District, or State, Court for the
district in which the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides,
was served, and the like.

   (F)   The grantee’s attorney shall conduct all litigation in which
the Chief Executive Officer participates as a party, or as amicus,
pursuant to this chapter.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.11) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)

§ 93.12 ENFORCEMENT OF PRIVATE PERSONS.

   (A)   The rights granted by §§ 93.03, 93.04, 93.05, and 93.06 may be
enforced by civil actions in state, or local, courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after
the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however,
that the court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this
section, or § 93.10(D), from time to time before bringing it to trial if
the court believes that the conciliation efforts of the Chief Executive
Officer are likely to result in satisfactory settlement of the
discriminatory housing practice complained of in the complaint made to
the Chief Executive Officer, and which practice forms the basis for the
action in court; and provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance, or
rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under
the authority of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser,
encumbrance, or tenant without actual notice of the existence of the
filing of a complaint, or civil action under the provisions of this
chapter, shall not be affected.

   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any
permanent or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other
order, and may award to the plaintiff actual damages, and not more than
$1,000 punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable
attorney fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the
said plaintiff, in the opinion of the court, is not financially able to
assume said attorney’s fees.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.12) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)

§ 93.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, INTIMIDATION.

   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere
with any person in the exercise, or enjoyment of, or on account of, his
or her having exercised, or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having
aided, or encouraged, any other person in the exercise, or enjoyment, of
any right granted, or protected, by §§ 93.03, 93.04, 93.05, and 93.06.
This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.13) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -) Penalty, see § 93.99

§ 93.14 INTIMIDATION IN FAIR CASES.

   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force, or
threat of force, willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or
attempts to injure, intimidate, or interfere with, shall be guilty of a
chapter violation:

   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, or
national origin, and because he or she is, or has been, selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting, or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of
any dwelling, or applying for, or participating in, any service,
organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings;

   (B)   Any person because he or she is, or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person, or any other person, or any class of persons
from:

      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race,
color, religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations, or facilities described in division (A) above; or

       (2)   Affording another person, or class of persons, opportunity,
or protection, so to participate.

   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is, or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen, or any other citizen, from lawfully aiding, or
encouraging, other persons to participate, without discrimination on
account of race, color, religion, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division
(A) above, or participating lawfully in speech, or peaceful assembly,
opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.15) (Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)

§ 93.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Whoever shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one year, or
both; and if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more than
$10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years, or for
life.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.15)

   (B)   Any person who willfully fails, or neglects, as stated in §
93.11, to attend and testify, or to answer any lawful inquiry, or to
produce records, documents, or other evidence, if in his or her power to
do so, in obedience to the subpoena, or lawful order, of the Chief
Executive Officer shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not
more than one year, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby to
mislead the Chief Executive Officer, shall make, or cause to be made,
any false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record, or
other document submitted to the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to his
or her subpoena, or other order, or shall willfully neglect, or fail, to
make, or cause to be made, full, true, and correct entries in such
reports, accounts, records, or other documents, or shall willfully
mutilate, alter, or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence,
shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one
year, or both.

(Prior Code, § 15.16.11)

(Ord. 2013-10, passed - -)

CHAPTER 94: FIREWORKS

Section

   94.01   Necessity of safety provisions

   94.02   Definition

   94.03   Restricted sale

   94.04   Prohibited and unsafe uses

 

   94.99   Penalty

§ 94.01 NECESSITY OF SAFETY PROVISIONS.

   It is hereby found and determined that the city does not currently
have sufficient laws and regulations regarding the use and sale of
fireworks within the corporate limits of the city to provide adequate
protection to the citizens of the city. Therefore, an emergency is
declared to exist, and this chapter being immediately necessary for the
preservation and protection of the public peace, health, safety and
welfare of the city and its citizens, became effective on the date of
its passage and approval by the Mayor. It shall hereafter be lawful for
any person to offer fireworks for sale at retail or wholesale within the
corporate limits of the city only under the terms and regulations set
out in this chapter.

(Ord. 2021-33, passed 9-27-2021)

§ 94.02 DEFINITION.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.

   FIREWORKS. Any explosive device using gunpowder, including, but not
limited to, firecrackers, sparklers, foundations, bottle rockets, cherry
bombs, and any other exploding fireworks.

(Ord. 2021-33, passed 9-27-2021)

§ 94.03 RESTRICTED SALE.

   (A)   Any person, individual, firm, corporation, or other business
entity shall be authorized to sell fireworks at wholesale or retail
within the corporate limits of the city upon the following terms and
conditions.

      (1)   Any entity shall make application to the Mayor, or
authorized personnel of the city, for the issuance of a permit to sell
said fireworks, prior to the beginning of the authorized period for sale
of fireworks as defined in state statutes.

         (a)   A person may pick up a permit application at City Hall.

         (b)   The permit shall not be issued unless the applicant has a
valid state permit to sell fireworks issued and approved by the State
Police under state law, being A.C. §§ 20-22-707, 20-22-708, and
20-22-710.

      (2)   Each application shall require a fee in the amount of $500,
payable prior to the issuance of said permit. Said application fee shall
be payable for each distinct location within the corporate limits of the
city. Upon compliance with the conditions hereinabove, the Mayor, or
authorized personnel, shall issue said permit and the sale of fireworks
will be authorized.

      (3)   The sale of fireworks shall occur only in a
commercially-zoned area and recognize regulated setbacks from the
property lines.

      (4)   The hours of operation for the fireworks stands within the
city shall be from 9:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m., from June 20 through July
6, except July 3 and 4 until the hour of 11:00 p.m. under A.C. §§
20-22-704 and 20-22-711.

      (5)   Prior to the opening of the fireworks sale facility, an
on-site inspection by the Fire Department must be conducted of the site.

      (6)   All fireworks stands shall have at least one five-pound ABC
fire extinguisher, or as many as the Fire Department inspectors require.

      (7)   All workers selling, stocking, or handling any fireworks
shall be at least 16 years of age. It shall be unlawful to offer for
retail sale or sell any fireworks to children under the age of 12, or to
any person known to be intoxicated or irresponsible under A.C. §
20-22-712.

      (8)   All grass surrounding the fireworks stand area shall be
closely trimmed. Trash and any other combustible materials shall be
removed from the fireworks stand area at all times.

      (9)   In cases of violation of any of the above-mentioned
conditions, or if the Mayor or Fire Chief, or their representatives,
deem the fireworks stand to be a danger to the health and safety of the
community, the Mayor and/or Fire Chief may exercise the right to close
the stand temporarily until the conditions have been complied with, or
close the stand permanently, at their discretion.

   (B)   Any sale, whether wholesale or retail, without possession of
said permit, which shall be prominently displayed at the sale location,
shall be a violation of this section. Each day for which any violation
of this section continues shall be deemed as a separate offense and
punished accordingly.

(Ord. 2021-33, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see § 94.99

§ 94.04 PROHIBITED AND UNSAFE USES.

   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or
other business entity, or individuals to use or discharge fireworks with
the city, except on the dates of June 30 through July 6 between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., except July 3 and 4 until the hour of
11:00 p.m., and at no other time unless authorized herein. Fireworks
which are permitted for discharge include those that are permitted by
A.C. §§ 20-22-701 et seq. and other applicable state or federal laws.

   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or discharge
fireworks within the city except on the person’s own property or with
consent of the property owner, and except while under competent or
appropriate supervision.

   (C)   Pursuant to the State Fire Prevention Code (as amended and
updated) and under applicable state law including A.C. §§ 20-22-701 et
seq., public displays, as defined and set forth in the state law, shall
be permitted only as set forth herein. ORGANIZED PRIVATE DISPLAYS,
which, for the purposes of this chapter, are defined to be organized or
spontaneous private fireworks displays that are of a size and nature in
excess of the typical discharge or use of fireworks for personal, single
family, or small gathering displays, and which may, in the sole
discretion of the Mayor or the Mayor’s designee, be of a sufficient size
and nature that the public health, safety, and welfare requires that
such displays be regulated as public displays, shall also be permitted
as set forth herein.

      (1)   Such public displays (or organized private displays deemed
to be public displays) shall only be permitted if written notification
of the public display is sent to the Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, at
least one week prior to the public display, and such public display
receives the approval of the Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, upon review
by the appropriate law enforcement and public safety authorities.

      (2)   Such public displays of fireworks must conform with
applicable state and federal requirements, and, when necessary, must
have a validly-issued permit. It shall be the duty of any person who
wishes to have a public display (or an organized private display) to be
apprised of these regulations and to be in communication with the Mayor,
or the Mayor’s designee, with regard to any requirements, or potential
requirements, herein.

   (D)   The Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, shall be authorized to
declare an emergency and prohibit all use of fireworks upon a
determination that such use would create a fire hazard in dry weather
conditions.

(Ord. 2021-33, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see § 94.99

§ 94.99 PENALTY.

   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor violation of city ordinances and may be punished by a fine
not to exceed $500, or double this sum for each repetition of such
offense or violation, in addition to all other court costs and fees.

(Ord. 2021-33, passed 9-27-2021)

TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS

   Chapter

      110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES

      111.   SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS

      112.   AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE

      113.   PERSONAL SALES

      114.   RED DIRT MINING FACILITIES

      115.   CAR DEALERS AND GARAGES

      116.   BUSINESS LICENSING

CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES

Section

   110.01   State laws

   110.02   License

   110.03   Hours of sale

   110.04   Sale restrictions

§ 110.01 STATE LAWS.

   The city hereby recognizes that the sale of alcohol, beer, and wine,
whether wholesale, retail, or by the drink, is thoroughly regulated by
the state, and nothing in this chapter shall contradict the laws of the
state. The definitions of the terms of this chapter shall be consistent
with those found in title three (A.C. §§ 3-1-101 et seq.) of the most
current state code.

(Prior Code, § 7.32.01) (Ord. 2013-5, passed - -)

§ 110.02 LICENSE.

   (A)   The sale of alcohol, beer, and wine in the city is declared a
privilege, and any seller of alcohol, beer, or wine shall obtain a
privilege license, or business permit, and shall renew it annually, in
accordance with city ordinances.

   (B)   Fees shall be as follows:

      (1)   Wholesaler’s license: $750;

      (2)   Off-premises retail/consumption: $500; and

      (3)   On-premises retail/consumption: $500.

(Prior Code, § 7.32.02) (Ord. 2016-04, passed 2-9-2016)

§ 110.03 HOURS OF SALE.

   Retailers may sell liquor, beer, and wine for off-premises
consumption only between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on
Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays, and between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. Sales of liquor,
beer, and wine for off-premises consumption are prohibited on Sundays
and Christmas day.

(Prior Code, § 7.32.03) (Ord. 2014-3, passed - -)

§ 110.04 SALE RESTRICTIONS.

   (A)   Off-premises consumption. As set forth in state law, no store
selling liquor for off-premises consumption may be located closer than
1,000 feet to a church or schoolhouse, as defined by applicable state
law.

(Prior Code, § 7.32.04)

   (B)   On-premises consumption.

      (1)   Pursuant to the terms of A.C. § 3-9-203, the sales, and
consumption, of alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption is
hereby authorized for establishments within the city.

      (2)   The sales, and on-premises consumption, shall be conducted
in compliance with all applicable state statutes, and all applicable
regulations of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Division of the State
Department of Finance and Administration.

(Ord. 2013-5, passed - -; Ord. 2016-06, passed 4-12-2016)

CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS

Section

   111.01   Definitions

   111.02   Obtaining a “no soliciting/no peddling” decal

   111.03   Principal permit

   111.04   Permit for peddlers/solicitors

   111.05   Prohibition

   111.06   Exemptions

   111.07   Revocation of permit

 

   111.99   Penalty

§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.

   The following words, terms and phrases and their derivations, when
used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the
section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

   CHARITABLE ACTIVITY. Any activity represented to be carried on for
unselfish, civic or humanitarian motives or for the benefit of others
and not for private gain and means, and includes patriotic,
philanthropic, social service, health, welfare, benevolent, educational,
civic, cultural or fraternal.

   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. A non-profit organization holding a tax
exemption certificate from the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to §
501 et seq., and any amendments thereto.

   CITY. City of Cave Springs, Arkansas.

   NO SOLICITING/NO PEDDLING DECAL. A decal that, by posting at the
front of a private residence provides notice that soliciting or peddling
at this address is prohibited by city ordinance.

   NO SOLICITING/NO PEDDLING LIST. An official list of people who have
registered with the city, to provide written notice that soliciting or
peddling at listed addresses is prohibited by city ordinance.

   PEDDLER. Any person who goes upon the premises of any private
residence in the city, not having been invited by the occupant thereof,
carrying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise or personal property
of any nature and offering the same for sale.

   PEDDLING. All activities ordinarily performed by a peddler as
indicated in the previous defined term.

   POLITICAL PURPOSE. Any form of communication related to a political
issue, a particular candidate to a position or non-partisan office, a
political committee, or to a political party.

   PRINCIPAL. The person or other legal entity whose goods, merchandise,
personal property or services are being peddled or solicited.

   RELIGIOUS PURPOSE. The use of money or property for the support of a
church, religious society or other religious sect, group, or order.

   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes upon the premises of any private
residence in the city, not having been invited by the occupant thereof,
for the purpose of taking or intending to schedule appointments or take
orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or other personal
property of any nature for future delivery, or for services to be
performed in the future.

   SOLICITATION OR SOLICITING. All activities ordinarily performed by a
solicitor as indicated in the previous defined term.

(Prior Code, § 7.40.01) (Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023)

§ 111.02 OBTAINING A “NO SOLICITING/NO PEDDLING” DECAL.

   The City Clerk shall provide any resident of the city a decal which
reads, "no soliciting/no peddling." This decal may be posted at the
front of any private residence in the city, and by posting said
notification, any solicitor or peddler has notice that soliciting or
peddling at this address is prohibited by city ordinance. The City Clerk
shall also have a list of residents’ addresses that have registered to
be on the "no soliciting/no peddling list" which provides written notice
that soliciting or peddling at listed addresses is prohibited by city
ordinance.

(Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023)

§ 111.03 PRINCIPAL PERMIT.

   No peddling or solicitation shall be conducted within the city
without a principal permit being issued. The cost for the principal to
obtain a solicitor/peddler's permit is $20.00, and shall be paid to the
City Clerk before any peddling or soliciting is conducted within the
city. The permit shall expire on December 31 in the year the permit is
issued. In addition to the principal's permit, the principal must also
obtain a business license and comply with the city's business license
requirements under Chapter 116: Business Regulations of this code. To
obtain a permit and business license, a representative of the principal
shall provide a written, signed application stating:

   (A)   The name, address, telephone number, type of organization, and
contact person for the principal applicant;

   (B)   The nature of the products or services involved;

   (C)   The proposed method of operation in the city;

   (D)   A list of persons who will peddle or solicit in the city on
behalf of the principal in the city.

(Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023)

§ 111.04 PERMIT FOR PEDDLERS/SOLICITORS.

   In addition to the principal permit, each peddler or solicitor acting
for the principal shall also obtain a permit from the City Clerk before
peddling or soliciting within the city. The cost to obtain a
peddler/solicitor permit is $35.00. In applying for the permit, each
applicant shall provide the following to the City Clerk:

   (A)   The name of the principal applicant for whom they are going to
act as a peddler or solicitor;

   (B)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who is
going to act as a peddler or solicitor, and in addition, they must also
provide photo identification;

   (C)   A signed statement under oath that the person applying to be a
peddler/solicitor has not been convicted of any felonies or any
misdemeanors involving theft, sexual offenses, or drug offenses;

   (D)   A criminal background check from the Arkansas State Police
which shows that the peddler or solicitor has not been convicted of any
felonies, or any misdemeanors involving theft, sexual offenses, or drug
offenses. No person shall be issued a permit as a peddler or solicitor
that has been convicted of any of the offenses set out herein.

(Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023)

§ 111.05 PROHIBITION.

   It is unlawful for any solicitor or peddler to:

   (A)   Peddle or solicit within the city without having a copy of this
section and a copy of the no knock list on their person, as well as a
copy of their permit issued by the City Clerk, as well as photo
identification visible, which is provided by the principal, identifying
the person peddling or soliciting;

   (B)   Enter upon any private residence, knock on a door, ring the
doorbell, or otherwise attempt to gain admittance at the residence when
the premises has posted at the entry of the residence a decal or sign
bearing the words, "no soliciting/no peddling," "no peddlers," "no
solicitors," "no trespassing," or other words of similar import;

   (C)   Conduct the activities of peddler or solicitor and knock on a
door, ring the doorbell, or otherwise attempt to gain admittance at the
residence between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. during regular
standard time, and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. during
daylight savings time;

   (D)   Remain at the private residence when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner which a reasonable person would
find obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive;

   (E)   Make any false or misleading statements about the product or
service being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement;

   (F)   Claim to have the endorsement of the city solely based on the
city having issued a permit to that person;

   (G)   Fail to disclose his or her name and the name of the principal
who he represents at the outset of the initial conversation; and

   (H)   Fail to leave the premises or residence after having been asked
by the owner or occupant thereof to do so.

(Prior Code, § 7.40.07) (Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023) Penalty, see §
111.99

§ 111.06 EXEMPTIONS.

   The following shall be exempt to all provisions of this section:

   (A)   Officers or employees of the city, county, state, or federal
government, or any subdivision thereof when on official business; and

   (B)   Charitable activities on behalf of a charitable organization,
or activities related to a religious purpose or political purpose.

   (C)   The activities of investigation, security, and alarm systems
businesses, which are exclusively regulated by the state and the State
Police, as provided in A.C. § 17-40-106, as amended, and other such
activities exempt from regulation by state, or federal, law.

(Prior Code, § 7.40.08) (Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023) Penalty, see §
111.99

§ 111.07 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.

   Any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this section may be
suspended or revoked for good cause by the City Council. Good cause for
such suspension or revocation shall include any violation of this
section, or any other reasons for suspensions or revocation as set out
in Chapter 116: Business Regulations of this code and said violations
are hereby incorporated herein by reference. The procedure for
suspension or revocation under this section shall be the same procedure
as set out in in Chapter 116: Business Regulations of this code and said
procedure is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

(Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023)

§ 111.99 PENALTY.

   A person convicted of a violation of this subchapter shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, or double such sum for each
repetition thereof. If the violation is, in its nature, continuous in
respect to time, the penalty for allowing the continuance thereof is a
fine not to exceed $500.00 for each day that the violation is unlawfully
continued. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent the revocation
of a permit pursuant to § 111.07 herein. Violations of this chapter that
are continuous with respect to time, are a public nuisance and may be
abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a
penalty does not prevent equitable relief.

(Prior Code, § 7.40.09) (Ord. 2023-05, passed 3-28-2023)

CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE

Section

Pool Halls

   112.01   Unlawful

   112.02   License

   112.03   Authority

   112.04   Exemption

   112.05   Time limit

 

   112.99   Penalty

POOL HALLS

§ 112.01 UNLAWFUL.

   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or operator, of any
poolroom or pool hall, or pool parlor, or any employee of such owner, or
operator, to permit any person, or persons, under the age of 18 years to
play pool, billiards, or any other game, or frequent, or congregate, in
such poolroom, pool hall, or pool parlor, or any department thereof.

   (B)   No poolroom, pool hall, or pool parlor shall be operated
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.

(Prior Code, § 7.20.01) (Ord. 91, passed - -) Penalty, see § 112.99

§ 112.02 LICENSE.

   (A)    Owners, or operators, of businesses offering pool as an
entertainment form, whether the primary form of business or not, shall
comply with § 112.01, as well as pay to the city a license fee of $10 on
the first table, and $5 on each additional table on the premises.

   (B)   A license must be publicly displayed on said business premises.
Licenses are to be issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer.

(Prior Code, § 7.20.02) (Ord. 91, passed - -)

§ 112.03 AUTHORITY.

   The City Council shall have the power to stop the operation of any
business operating within its boundaries found not to be in compliance
with §§ 112.01 and/or 112.02 until such business complies with all
rules, and regulations, set forth by the Mayor, and City Council, in
this subchapter.

(Prior Code, § 7.20.03) (Ord. 91, passed - -)

§ 112.04 EXEMPTION.

   Nothing in this subchapter will be construed as to prohibit nonprofit
organizations from allowing its members to play the game of pool, at no
charge, on said nonprofit organizations’ premises. Further, nonprofit
organizations are exempt from § 112.02(A).

(Prior Code, § 7.20.04) (Ord. 91, passed - -)

§ 112.05 TIME LIMIT.

   Businesses within the city that fall within these rules shall have 30
days on, or after, the adoption of such rules, in which to comply, or
face the foregoing penalties.

(Prior Code, § 7.20.05) (Ord. 91, passed - -)

§ 112.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which
no specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to § 10.99.

   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of § 112.01 shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on conviction, be fined not
less than $10, nor more than $100.

(Prior Code, § 7.20.01)

      (2)   Failure to comply with § 112.02 by the owner, or operator,
shall constitute, upon conviction, a misdemeanor, and shall be fined not
less than $10, nor more than $100.

(Prior Code, § 7.20.02)

(Ord. 91, passed - -)

CHAPTER 113: PERSONAL SALES

Section

Garage Sales

   113.01   Permit

   113.02   Application

   113.03   Regulations

   113.04   Signs

   113.05   Removal of signs

 

   113.99   Penalty

GARAGE SALES

§ 113.01 PERMIT.

   No person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity shall
conduct a yard sale, rummage sale, or garage sale without first applying
for, and obtaining, a permit.

(Prior Code, § 7.28.01) (Ord. 2003-10, passed - -) Penalty, see § 113.99

§ 113.02 APPLICATION.

   (A)    Application for permits for yard sales, rummage sales, and
garage sales should be made to the City Clerk-Treasurer, and he or she
shall issue a permit subject to the above conditions after payment of a
$5 fee.

   (B)   After payment of the fee, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a
garage sale permit, which shall be posted where it is visible from the
street, at the location of the yard sale, rummage sale, or garage sale.

(Prior Code, § 7.28.02) (Ord. 2003-10, passed - -)

§ 113.03 REGULATIONS.

   Permits for yard sales, rummage sales, and garage sales shall be
valid for not more than two days, and shall not be granted for the same
location for more than two times during any calendar year, with the
exception of city-wide garage sales held twice a year (in the fall and
spring).

(Prior Code, § 7.28.04) (Ord. 2003-10, passed - -)

§ 113.04 SIGNS.

   It is a violation of state law to post any signs on utility poles.
Garage sale signs may not be posted on street signs or stop signs,
telephone, light, or cable television, poles, and may not be posted any
closer than ten feet to the street.

(Prior Code, § 7.28.05) (Ord. 2003-10, passed - -) Penalty, see § 113.99

§ 113.05 REMOVAL OF SIGNS.

   All yard, garage sale, or rummage sale signs must be removed by the
beginning of the first business day following the last day of the sale.
If the sale is cancelled due to rain, within one week of the rainout.

(Prior Code, § 7.28.06) (Ord. 2003-10, passed - -)

§ 113.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which
no specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to § 10.99.

   (B)   Any person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity
found in violation of §§ 113.01 through 113.05 shall be subject to a
fine of not more than $50, with each day in violation of §§ 113.01
through 113.05 being considered a separate offense. In addition, the
city may, at the option of the City Council, bring an action to enjoin
the continued violation of this §§ 113.01 through 113.05.

(Prior Code, § 7.28.03) (Ord. 2003-10, passed - -)

CHAPTER 114: RED DIRT MINING FACILITIES

Section

   114.01   Definitions

   114.02   Rock blasting; use of explosives

   114.03   Operation of red dirt mining facilities

   114.04   Dust, mud, and debris control measures

   114.05   Control of dump truck tailgate banging and loader banging

   114.06   Issuance, suspension, revocation of license

   114.07   No reduction in property owner’s right to sue

 

   114.99   Penalty

§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.

   COMMERCIAL PURPOSES. The sale of material from a red dirt mining
facility as either a cash transaction, part of contractual agreement
involving payment for materials provided, or for use in another process
to create a product with value.

   DUMP TRUCK TAILGATE BANGING. The avoidable, and loud, banging of a
dump truck tailgate used to vibrate the bed of the truck in order to
loosen material in the bed sough to be dumped. The relatively quiet bang
that might be unavoidable when a dump truck load is dumped, and the
truck moves away from the pile without applying the truck’s brakes, is
not regulated by this chapter.

   HOUSE. Any habitable structure, including a mobile or manufactured
home, a dwelling, a residence, an apartment, a condominium, a hotel, or
motel.

   LOADER BANGING. The avoidable, and loud, banging of loader and
backhoe scoops, and the scooping mechanisms of other similar machines,
used to vibrate the scoop in order to loosen material sought to be
dumped.

   OPERATION OF RED DIRT MINING FACILITY. Any operation of any
mechanical equipment on the premises of the red dirt mining facility, or
any operation of dump trucks, or other large vehicles, on the premises
of the red dirt mining site. The removal, loading, or processing of
materials shall constitute operation of the red dirt mining facility.

   RED DIRT MINING. Any open excavation used for obtaining red dirt, or
other type of soil used for paving, grading, fill, or any construction,
or commercial, purposes.

(Prior Code, § 4.32.01) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)

§ 114.02 ROCK BLASTING; USE OF EXPLOSIVES.

   No rock blasting through the use of any form of explosive charge for
red dirt mining shall be allowed within the city limits.

(Prior Code, § 4.32.02) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)

§ 114.03 OPERATION OF RED DIRT MINING FACILITIES.

   (A)   All prospective red dirt mine facilities within the city
limits, including the expansion of the operations of an existing red
dirt mine facility, on to real property that has not received the zoning
approval for the operation of a red dirt mine facilities, in accordance
with the ordinances of the city, must secure the proper zoning approvals
before the commencement of the operation of a red dirt mine facility.

   (B)   Before the commencement of the operation of a red dirt mine
facility within the city limits, a prospective red dirt mine facility
must receive an issued red dirt mine facility operation permit from the
city, as set forth in § 114.06.

   (C)   Red dirt mine facilities within the city limits shall only be
allowed to operate during daylight periods between 7:00 a.m. through
7:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday. Despite the hours of operation set
forth above, under no circumstances shall operations of the red dirt
mining facilities be allowed before daylight in the morning, or after
dark. It shall, in any case, be a violation of this chapter for a red
dirt mine facility to operate before 7:00 a.m., or after 7:00 p.m.,
Monday through Saturday.

   (D)   No red dirt mine facilities within the city limits shall be
allowed to operate on Sundays, or the recognized holidays of
Independence Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and New Year’s Day.

   (E)   All red dirt mines within the city limits shall comply, at all
times, with all federal, and state (including the State Department of
Environmental Quality), laws, rules, regulations, and requirements.
Specifically, all red dirt mines within the city limits shall be in
compliance with the State Open-Cut Land Reclamation Act, being A.C. §§
15-57-301 et seq., and the State Quarry Operation, Reclamation, and Safe
Closure Act, being A.C. §§ 15-57-401 et seq.

(Prior Code, § 4.32.03) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)

§ 114.04 DUST, MUD, AND DEBRIS CONTROL MEASURES.

   (A)   All red dirt mine facilities within the city limits shall be
allowed to operate with the following safeguards, and measures, to
ensure that dust, dirt, mud, debris, loose rock, and gravel, and all
other possible irritant or nuisance substances, do not adversely affect
the city’s residents.

   (B)   It is the express continuing duty of the licensed red dirt mine
facility operators to ensure all of these safeguards, requirements, and
measures are constantly enforced.

      (1)   Dust control measures. Water, or other substances or
measures, must be employed, and fully effective, during the operation of
the red dirt mine to ensure the mine is in full, and continual,
compliance with the requirements of the State Water and Air Pollution
Control Act, being A.C. § 8-4-101, as administered by the State
Department of Environmental Quality. A violation of the permit
conditions required by the State Department of Environmental Quality can
be grounds for a suspension, or revocation, of the city’s red dirt mine
operating license.

      (2)   Loose rock and gravel. The red dirt mine operator is
responsible to post notice that all dump trucks leaving the red dirt
mine site that may utilize any city streets, and are carrying more than
half a truck load of gravel, rocks, or dirt, have their load fully, and
properly, covered. Any dump truck leaving a red dirt mine carrying more
than a half a truck load of gravel, rock, or dirt, without having this
load properly covered, shall be in violation of this chapter.

(Prior Code, § 4.32.04) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)

§ 114.05 CONTROL OF DUMP TRUCK TAILGATE BANGING AND LOADER BANGING.

   Dump truck tailgate banging and loader banding, as defined in §
114.01, is hereby prohibited in the city, and constitutes a violation of
this chapter. It is the express duty of the red dirt mine facility
operator to prevent a dump truck delivering anything to the mine, or
receiving rock or dirt from the mine, from engaging in dump truck
tailgate banging at any time upon its property. Dump truck tailgate
banging shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Further, it is the
express duty of the red dirt mine facility operator to prevent a loader
or backhoe, or other similar loading machine, from engaging in loader
banging, as defined in § 114.01, at any time upon his or her property.
Loader banging shall constitute a violation of this chapter.

(Prior Code, § 4.32.05) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)

§ 114.06 ISSUANCE, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE.

   (A)   Issuance.

      (1)   The owner, or operator, of a red dirt mine facility within
the city limits shall submit a proper application for a red dirt mining
facility operation permit to the city. The owner, or operator, shall pay
an application fee of $50, which fee shall be refunded by the city if a
permit is not issued. In order to receive an issued red dirt mining
facility operation permit from the city, the owner, or operator, must
provide the following information with the submission of the
application:

         (a)   A legal description of the property where the proposed
red dirt mining operations shall take place;

         (b)   Current contact information, including after-hours
contact information, for the owner, or operator, of the red dirt mine
facility;

         (c)   Proof that the owner, or operator, of the red dirt mine
facility has received the proper zoning approval for the operation of a
red dirt mine facilities, in accordance with the ordinances of the city,
and such zoning approval is in good standing;

         (d)   Proof that the owner, or operator, of the red dirt mine
facility has received the necessary, current, and valid federal, and
state, mining permits to conduct red dirt mining operations at the
proposed location;

         (e)   A copy of the detailed plan of reclamation of the area to
be affected is required, as well as proof of issuance of a bond, or
substituted security, for the affected area required under state law;
and

         (f)   A signed statement by the owner, or operator, of the red
dirt facility that the operation shall comply with all applicable
federal, state, and city laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances in the
operation of the red dirt mining facility.

      (2)   Within five days from the receipt of a completed red dirt
mining facility operation permit and application fee, the city shall
issue the red dirt mining facility operation permit to the owner, or
operator, of the red dirt mine facility.

   (B)   Citation. The Police Chief, or his or her designee, may issue a
citation to the operator of a red dirt mine facility licensed under this
chapter for a violation of the terms of the license, or any requirement
of this chapter.

   (C)   Suspension or revocation. In the event of repetitive,
continuing, intentional, or substantial violations of the requirements
of this chapter, the City Planning Commission may revoke a red dirt mine
operating license at a meeting of the Planning Commission at which the
owner, or operator, of the red dirt mine facility has been provided
notice, and an opportunity, to oppose such suspension, or revocation.

   (D)   Appeal. Any person, or entity, whose license has been revoked
pursuant to this section may appeal such a revocation to the City
Council by providing a written request to the Mayor for City Council
review within ten business days of the issuance of the revocation. The
City Council may then determine whether the red dirt mine operator
violated the requirements of this chapter and, if so, whether revocation
of the license is appropriate for such violation.

(Prior Code, § 4.32.06) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)

§ 114.07 NO REDUCTION IN PROPERTY OWNER’S RIGHT TO SUE.

   Nothing in this chapter shall remove, or reduce, a property owner’s
right to sue, or seek, an injunction against any owner, or operator, of
a red dirt mine if a court of competent jurisdiction finds that such
facility constitutes a private, or public, nuisance to that property
owner.

(Prior Code, § 4.32.09) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)

§ 114.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any owner, lessor, or lessee of real property upon which is
located a red dirt mine, and any operator, manager, or employee of such
red dirt mine shall ensure such mine is operated within the limits of
this chapter, and shall be guilty of a criminal violation for any
violation of the requirements of this chapter.

   (B)   The red dirt mine operating license may be suspended, or
revoked, by the City Planning Commission after a due process hearing for
an owner’s, manager’s, operator’s, employee’s, or lessee’s violation of
any terms, or limits, within this chapter, or for operating the red dirt
mine facility not in conformity with its red dirt mine operating
license.

   (C)   Any owner, operator, manager, lessee, or employee of a red dirt
mine shall be guilty of a criminal violation if such person operates the
red dirt mine in violation of any of the terms of this chapter, without
a current, and valid, red dirt mine operating license, or in violation
of any of the terms of his or her red dirt mine operating license.

   (D)   Each violation of the operational hour limitations, the rock
blasting limitations of this chapter, or the applicable red dirt mine
operating license, or any other provisions, or term, of this chapter
shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter, and shall be
punishable by a fine of up to $500 for each offense.

(Prior Code, § 4.32.07) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)

CHAPTER 115: CAR DEALERS AND GARAGES

Section

   115.01   Permits

   115.02   Publication

   115.03   Permit fee

   115.04   Permit revocation

   115.05   Provisions against pollution

   115.06   Civil remedies

 

   115.99   Penalty

§ 115.01 PERMITS.

   The City Council is given, and charged with, the power and duty to
issue, continue in effect, revoke, modify, or deny permits, under such
conditions as it may prescribe:

   (A)   To prevent control, or abate pollution;

   (B)   For the disposal of pollutants; and

   (C)   For the installation, modification, or operation of disposal
systems, or any part of them.

(Prior Code, § 8.20.01) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)

§ 115.02 PUBLICATION.

   When any application for the issuance of a new renewable permit is
filed with the City Council, the City Council shall cause notice of the
application to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county in which the proposed facility is to be located.

   (A)   The notice shall afford any interested part 30 calendar days in
which to submit comments on the proposed permit action.

   (B)   At the conclusion of the public comment period, the City
Council shall announce its final decision regarding the permit
application.

   (C)   All costs of publication of notices of applications under this
section shall be the responsibility of the applicant.

(Prior Code, § 8.20.02) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)

§ 115.03 PERMIT FEE.

   (A)   The fee for a new permit shall be $100 per year for each motor
vehicle dealer location, and/or motor vehicle garage. Such fee shall be
for the licensing period beginning on January 1 of each year, and ending
on December 31 of each year, and shall be renewable during the month of
January following its expiration.

   (B)   All existing business in current form shall be grandfathered in
regarding permit fees. Any time, upon modification, or expansion, of
ownership, the business shall be required to conform to the ordinance in
entirety.

(Prior Code, § 8.20.03) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)

§ 115.04 PERMIT REVOCATION.

   (A)   Upon giving 30 days’ written notice of non-compliance, the City
Council is given, and charged with, the power, and duty, to revoke,
modify, or suspend, in whole or in part, for cause any permit issued
under this chapter, including, without limitation, the following:

      (1)   Violation of any condition of the permit;

      (2)   Obtaining a permit by misrepresentation, or failure to
disclose fully, all relevant facts;

      (3)   Selling a vehicle without a dealer license;

      (4)   Committing a fraudulent act in selling, purchasing, or
otherwise dealing in motor vehicles;

      (5)   Failing to maintain the conditions, and requirements,
necessary to qualify for the issuance of a permit;

      (6)   Falsify, alter, or neglect to endorse, or deliver, a
certificate of title to a transferee, or lawful owner, or fail to
properly designate a transferee on a document of assignment of
certificate of title;

      (7)   Knowingly purchase, sell, or otherwise acquire, or dispose
of, a stolen motor vehicle;

      (8)   Submitting a false affidavit setting forth that a title has
been lost or destroyed;

      (9)   Passing title, or reassigning title, as a dealer without a
dealer’s license, or when his or her dealer’s license has been
suspended;

      (10)   Knowingly assist an unlicensed dealer in the sale of a
motor vehicle;

      (11)   Failing to deliver a certificate of title to any purchaser;
or

      (12)   Violates any of the provisions against pollution in §
115.05.

   (B)   At the discretion of the City Council, a permit may be
reinstated if the new, and/or used, motor vehicle dealer, or motor
vehicle garage, is in compliance within the 30 days from the receipt of
notice, and this is the first notice of non-compliance received by the
new, and/or used, motor vehicle dealer, or motor vehicle garage.

(Prior Code, § 8.20.04) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)

§ 115.05 PROVISIONS AGAINST POLLUTION.

   (A)   The new, and/or used, motor vehicle dealer, and motor vehicle
garage, will comply with the provisions of this section, and all
applicable state, and federal, standards and regulations concerning air
and water quality, and that the transfer, handling, and storage of
materials within the dealer’s facility will not cause conditions which
would violate state, and federal, standards concerning unreasonable
hazards to the environment, or to the health and welfare of the people
living and working in, or near, the facility.

   (B)   No person shall cause, or permit, the collection,
transportation, or disposal of lead-acid batteries mixed, or commingled
with, solid waste by any person.

   (C)   No person shall cause, or permit, the collection, storage, and
disposal, reuse, or recycling of used motor oil.

   (D)   No person shall cause, or permit, the hauling, storage,
recycling, and disposal of waste tires.

   (E)   No person shall cause, or permit, the open burning of tires in
the state.

   (F)   No person shall maintain a waste tire site unless the site is a
state, and city, approved waste tire processing facility, or collection
center.

   (G)   The new, and/or used, motor vehicle dealers, and motor vehicle
garages, shall adopt an approved method for the disposal of petroleum
contaminated soil. PETROLEUM CONTAMINATED SOIL means those soils which
have been physically, chemically, or biologically altered by gasoline,
diesel, kerosene, heating oil, jet fuel, or any other petroleum product.

   (H)   No person shall purposely, knowingly, or recklessly cause
pollution of the waters, or air, of the city, and thereby create a
substantial likelihood of adversely affecting human health, animal or
plant life, or property. WATERS OF THE CITY means all streams, lakes,
marshes, ponds, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation
systems, drainage systems, and all other bodies, or accumulations, of
water, surface and underground, natural or artificial, public or
private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon any
portion of the city. DISCHARGE INTO THE WATERS OF THE CITY means a
discharge of any wastes in any manner which directly, or indirectly,
permits such wastes to reach any of the waters of the city.

(Prior Code, § 8.20.05) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)

§ 115.06 CIVIL REMEDIES.

   The City Council is authorized to institute a civil action in any
court of competent jurisdiction to accomplish any, or all, of the
following:

   (A)   Restrain any violation of, or compel compliance with, the
provisions of this chapter, and of any rules, regulations, orders,
permits, or plans issued pursuant thereto;

   (B)   Affirmatively order that remedial measures be taken as may be
necessary, or appropriate, to implement, or effectuate, the purposes,
and intent, of this chapter; and

   (C)   Recover all costs, expenses, and damages to the city in
enforcing, or effectuating, the provisions of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, natural resource damages.

(Prior Code, § 8.20.06) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)

§ 115.99 PENALTY.

   In addition to the civil remedies, the city may assess criminal
penalties in an amount not to exceed $100 per day for violations of this
chapter and of any rules, regulations, permits, or plans issued pursuant
thereto.

(Prior Code, § 8.20.07) (Ord. 2000-7, passed - -)

CHAPTER 116: BUSINESS LICENSING

Section

   116.01   License required

   116.02   Obligation to obtain license

   116.03   Employee defined

   116.04   License required for each place of business

   116.05   Application

   116.06   Part-year licenses; proration

   116.07   Term of license; payment; publication of expiration dates

   116.08   License fee schedule

   116.09   Compliance with ordinances and regulations

   116.10   Change of location

   116.11   License not transferable

   116.12   Operation of business constituting nuisance

   116.13   Inspection of licensed premises

   116.14   Display of license

   116.15   Exemptions

   116.16   Violations

§ 116.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.

   A license shall be required of any person, firm, individual,
corporation, or other entity who shall engage in, carry on, or follow
any trade, business, profession, vocation, or calling within the
corporate limits of the city, unless exempt by state law. The license
shall be for the privilege of doing business or carrying on any trade,
business, profession, vocation, or calling in the town.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.02 OBLIGATION TO OBTAIN LICENSE.

   All persons, firms, individuals, corporations, and other entities
shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter, if any such person
or other entity, by itself or through an agent, employee, or partner,
holds himself, herself, or itself forth as being engaged in a business
or occupation; or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively; or
performs, or attempts to perform, any part of such business or
occupation in the city.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.03 EMPLOYEE DEFINED.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.

   EMPLOYEE. Any partner, corporate officer, or other individual who
receives any direct or indirect compensation from any entity subject to
licensing pursuant to this chapter.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.04 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS.

   Any person or entity having more than one place of business within
the city shall obtain a license for each place of business. For the
purpose of this chapter, MORE THAN ONE PLACE OF BUSINESS shall mean any
business operations conducted within two or more separate buildings, or
upon two or more separate tracts of real estate.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.05 APPLICATION.

    Applications for all licenses required by this chapter shall be made
in writing to the City Clerk-Treasurer. Each application shall state the
name of the applicant, the location to be used for the business, the
time covered, and the fee to be paid; and each application shall contain
such additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance of
the city officials in issuing the license applied for. Each license
issued shall bear the signature of the City Clerk-Treasurer. All
applications filed hereunder shall be kept and filed by the City
Clerk-Treasurer.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.06 PART-YEAR LICENSES; PRORATION.

    All fees and charges for licenses shall be paid at the time
application therefor is made to the City Clerk-Treasurer. When an
applicant has not engaged in the business until after the expiration of
part of the current license year, the license fee shall be prorated by
quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof during
which the business has been, or will be, conducted. All license fees
shall become part of the city’s General Fund.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.07 TERM OF LICENSE; PAYMENT; PUBLICATION OF EXPIRATION DATES.

    All licenses shall commence on January 1 and terminate on December
31 of each year. The annual license fee shall be paid on, or before,
January 31 of each year. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall publish a notice
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city of the time of
expiration of the licenses, at least three weeks prior to the date of
such expiration. A failure to publish such notice, or the failure of the
licensee to have actual knowledge of such notice, shall not excuse the
licensee from a failure to obtain a new license, or a renewal thereof,
nor shall it be a defense in an action for operation without a license.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.08 LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE.

   Any person who shall engage in, carry on, or follow any trade,
business, profession, vocation, or calling within the corporate limits
of the city shall pay an annual license fee of $______________per year.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.09 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.

   (A)   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business if
the premises and building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply
with all of the laws, ordinances, regulations, and requirements of the
city. No such license shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the zoning
ordinance of the city.

   (B)   The license is conditioned on the licensee complying with all
ordinances and regulations of the city, as well as the laws of the state
and the United States, during the year of issue. If the licensee shall
fail to comply with all city ordinances and regulations during the year,
such license may be revoked by the city, if, after notice of
non-compliance is given to the licensee, the licensee fails to come into
compliance within ten working days after notification. If the licensee
fails to comply within ten working days, the city shall notify the
licensee that the license is revoked.

   (C)   If, after the license is revoked, the person, firm, individual,
corporation, or other entity continues to operate, such person, firm,
individual, corporation, or other entity shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in the sum of
not less than the amount of the license fee provided for, nor more than
double such amount for each offense, plus the cost to the city of
collecting such sums.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see § 10.99

§ 116.10 CHANGE OF LOCATION.

    The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any
permitted act, may be changed, provided ten working days’ notice thereof
is given to the City Clerk-Treasurer in the absence of any provision to
the contrary; provided, that the building, zoning, and other ordinances
of the city shall be complied with.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.11 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.

   A license issued under this chapter shall not be transferable.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.12 OPERATION OF BUSINESS CONSTITUTING NUISANCE.

   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to
amount to a nuisance in fact, nor in violation of any ordinance of this
city, state, or federal law.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see § 10.99

§ 116.13 INSPECTION OF LICENSED PREMISES.

   Whenever inspections of the premises used for, or in connection with,
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or
required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance
with any ordinance or provision, or to detect violations thereof, it
shall be the duty of the licensee, or the person in charge of the
premises to be inspected, to admit thereto, for the purpose of making
the inspection, any officer or employee of the city who is authorized or
directed to make such inspections at any reasonable time admission is
requested.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.14 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.

   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in
the city to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business at all times. The holder of a license
shall show the license to any officer or agent of the city upon request.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.15 EXEMPTIONS.

   The following existing ordinances are not affected by the provisions
contained in this chapter:

   (A)   Any ordinance regulating, taxing, or licensing businesses which
manufacture, distribute, or sell beer, wine, or liquor;

   (B)   Ordinances licensing, regulating, or controlling the operation
of mobile home parks; and

   (C)   Any franchise ordinance specifically including, but not being
limited to, utilities and telephone service.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016)

§ 116.16 VIOLATIONS.

   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, upon conviction,
shall be fined a sum of not less than the amount of the license fee
provided for, nor more than double such amount for each offense, plus
the cost to the town of collecting.

(Ord. 2016-21, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see § 10.99

Statutory reference:

   Authority to punish violations, see A.C. § 26-77-102(e)

   Maximum penalty double license fee plus costs, see A.C. § 26-77-101

TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES

   Chapter

      130.   CURFEW FOR MINORS

      131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE

CHAPTER 130: CURFEW FOR MINORS

Section

   130.01   Definitions

   130.02   Curfew

   130.03   Exemptions

 

   130.99   Penalty

§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.

   EMANCIPATED MINOR. A minor who no longer has a parent-child
relationship as a result of marriage, or as a result of being recognized
as an adult by a court of competent jurisdiction.

   LEGITIMATELY PARENTALLY-APPROVED ERRAND. A minor performing a
necessary task at the direction of the minor’s parent, and the
non-performance of the errand, or delay of performance until after
curfew hours have abated, would result in injury or undue hardship.

   MINOR. Any un-emancipated, or unmarried, person under the age of 18
years.

   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:

      (1)   As a natural parent;

      (2)   As an adoptive parent;

      (3)   As a legal guardian; or

      (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
the court.

   PUBLIC PLACE. A publicly, or privately, owned place to which the
public, or substantial numbers of people, have access. A PUBLIC PLACE
does not include the residence of a minor, or the residence of a minor’s
parent, or a responsible adult.

   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. A person at least 21 years of age to whom a parent
has given permission to accompany a minor.

(Prior Code, § 7.08.01) (Ord. 2003-13, passed - -)

§ 130.02 CURFEW.

   The minor curfew for the city is hereby established as follows:

   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to be upon the streets,
sidewalks, parks, playgrounds, public places, and vacant lots, or to
ride in, or upon, drive, or otherwise operate, or be a passenger in, any
automobile, bicycle, or other vehicle in, upon, over, or through the
streets, or other public places between the following hours:

      (1)   On Sunday through Thursday evenings, from 11:00 p.m. through
5:00 a.m. (six hours); and

      (2)   On Friday and Saturday evenings, from 12:00 p.m. through
5:00 a.m. (five hours).

   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent to permit a minor to be
upon the streets, sidewalks, parks, playgrounds, public places, and
vacant lots, or to ride in, or upon, drive, or otherwise operate, a
vehicle in, upon, over, or through the streets, or other public places,
in violation of division (A)(2) above. The fact that a minor is in
violation of the provisions of division (A)(2), as set forth above,
without a defense, as set forth in § 130.03, shall create a rebuttable
presumption that a parent is in violation of this section.

(Prior Code, § 7.08.02) (Ord. 2003-13, passed - -) Penalty, see § 130.99

§ 130.03 EXEMPTIONS.

   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of § 130.02, this chapter does
not apply:

      (1)   At any time a minor is accompanied by a parent, or by a
responsible adult authorized by a parent to take the parent’s place to
accompany the minor, for a designated period of time, and purpose,
within a specified area;

      (2)   If the minor is employed for a period of time 45 minutes
after work; provided, that circumstances suggest the minor is returning
from work to a place of residence;

      (3)   When a minor is returning home from an activity that is
supervised by adults, and sponsored by the city, a civic organization, a
public, or private, school, or any entity that takes responsibility for
the minor; provided, that the activity has not been concluded for more
than 45 minutes;

      (4)   At any time the minor is on a legitimate,
parentally-approved errand;

      (5)   At any time the minor is on a trip in interstate commerce;

      (6)   At any time the minor is required to leave a residence
because of an emergency; and/or

      (7)   At any time the minor is engaged in an activity that is
protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, or
the freedom of speech, religion, or expression provisions contained in
Article II of the State Constitution.

   (B)   If a minor being questioned about the possible violation of
this chapter provides a law enforcement officer with sufficient reason
to believe that the minor is entitled to an exemption under this
section, the law enforcement officer shall take no enforcement action
under this chapter; provided, the officer may make a report of the
minor’s identity, the exemption claimed, and other necessary information
to note the possible violation of this chapter.

(Prior Code, § 7.08.03) (Ord. 2003-13, passed - -)

§ 130.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   A parent, or minor, found to be in violation of this chapter
shall be subject to the following penalties:

      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a
violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500, or double such sum for each repetition thereof;

      (2)   At the discretion of the law enforcement officer, any minor
receiving a citation for violation of the minor curfew chapter may be
released immediately to return home, may be escorted to his or her home,
or may be taken into custody, and delivered to an appropriate juvenile
authority to be held until a parent can be located to take custody of
the minor; and/or

      (3)   Nothing in this section shall prevent a law enforcement
officer from taking any, and all, appropriate actions for a minor’s
violation of any other local, or state, law.

   (B)   The penalties contained herein are in accordance with A.C. §
14-55-502(a) and (b).

(Prior Code, § 7.08.04) (Ord. 2003-13, passed - -)

CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE

Section

   131.01   State criminal statutes adopted

   131.02   Firearms

 

   131.99   Penalty

§ 131.01 STATE CRIMINAL STATUTES ADOPTED.

   (A)   All criminal statutes of the state relating to misdemeanors and
violations of the laws of criminal procedure in connection therewith,
three copies of which are on file in the Mayor’s office, are hereby
enacted by the City Council to form a part of the laws of the city, and
any person, firm, or corporation being found guilty of the violation of
any such laws shall be deemed guilty of the violation of the ordinances
of the city, and shall be fined, or imprisoned, or both, in the manner
set out under the state statutes.

(Prior Code, § 7.04.01)

   (B)   The same minimum, and maximum, penalties for the violation of
misdemeanors and violations, as are provided in the state statutes, are
hereby adopted as the minimum, and maximum, fines for the violation of
the same offenses which are prohibited by the ordinances of this city.

(Prior Code, § 7.04.02)

Statutory reference:

   State criminal statutes, A.C. § 14-55-501

   State penalties, A.C. § 14-55-502

§ 131.02 FIREARMS.

   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm which
propels a projectile, or multiple projectiles, of any size by means of
an explosion within such weapon created by the use of gunpowder, or any
other explosive material.

(Prior Code, § 7.12.01)

   (B)   Defense. It shall be an affirmative defense for anyone charged
with violation of this section, if such person acted in self defense, or
defense of another, or to protect his or her livestock in accordance
with the laws of the state.

(Prior Code, § 7.12.03)

(Ord. 107, passed - -) Penalty, see § 131.99

§ 131.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which
no specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to § 10.99.

   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of § 131.02 shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, or plea of guilty, nolo
contendere, shall be punished by a fine of $25, and costs for the first
offense, and not more than $50, and costs for subsequent convictions.

(Prior Code, § 7.12.02)

TITLE XV: LAND USAGE

   Chapter

      150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION

      151.   STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY

      152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION

      153.   WIRELESS FACILITIES; CONSTRUCTION, REGULATIONS

      154.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS

CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION

Section

General Provisions

   150.001   Fire Prevention Code adopted

   150.002   Mechanical Code adopted

   150.003   Building guidelines

   150.004   Plumbing Code adopted

   150.005   National Electric Code adopted

Building Permits

   150.015   Residential building permit fee

   150.016   Electrical and mechanical permit fee

   150.017   Plumbing permit fee

   150.018   Swimming pools; permit fee

   150.019   Sewer installation permit fee

   150.020   Heating and cooling permit fees (HVAC)

   150.021   RPZ valve installation permit fee

   150.022   Re-inspection fees

   150.023   Residential renovation/modification permit fees

   150.024   Agriculture renovation/modification permit fees

   150.025   Commercial and industrial permit fees

   150.026   Miscellaneous fees

   150.027   Authority

Recreational Vehicle Parks

   150.040   Definitions

   150.041   Development requirements

   150.042   Permit

   150.043   Enforcement

Mobile Home Regulations

   150.055   Definitions

   150.056   Placement

   150.057   Homes in location

   150.058   Permit decal

   150.059   Registration form

   150.060   Inspection

   150.061   Records

   150.062   Decals

   150.063   Exceptions

   150.064   Powers of Planning Commission

   150.065   Application fee

   150.066   Public hearing

   150.067   Parking on streets

   150.068   Parking on premises

   150.069   Temporary stopping

   150.070   Automobile trailers

 

   150.999   Penalty

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 150.001 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.

   (A)   Adopted by reference. The City Council does hereby adopt, by
reference, the 2012 edition of the State Fire Prevention Code,
consisting of Volume 1 Fire, Volume 2 Building, Volume 3 Residential,
and all appendices (also known as the International Building Code with
the State Fire Code exceptions), and the whole thereof, save, and
except, such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended.

   (B)   Maintenance of copies; public view and inspection. Not less
than three copies have been, and now are, kept in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer.

(Ord. 2017-40, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 2023-10, passed 7-25-2023)

§ 150.002 MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.

   (A)   Adopted.

      (1)   The city hereby does adopt the International Mechanical
Code, 2021 Edition or most current edition.

      (2)   These rules, and regulations, are adopted in an attempt to
ensure safe mechanical installation, including alterations, repairs, and
replacement to equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings, and
appurtenances thereto, Manual “J”, and Manual “D” as to safeguard life,
health, and the public welfare.

(Prior Code, § 11.16.01)

   (B)   Amendment. In addition to the adoption of the aforementioned
International Mechanical Code, the City Council hereby adopts the
following local amendment to said code, which shall repeal only that
portion of the code which may be in conflict herewith, and shall
otherwise be supplemental to said code. Specifically, the local
amendments are as follows:

      (1)   Dryer vents.

         (a)   Dryer vent terminations shall have a minimum clearance of
12 inches above the finished grade to the bottom of the vent
termination;

         (b)   Dryer vents shall have at least a one-eighth inch per
foot fall to the termination;

         (c)   Dryer vents shall not be trapped; and

         (d)   Dryer vents shall not be located within five feet of a
HVAC condensing unit.

      (2)   HVAC ducts and plenums.

         (a)   All ducts, both supply and return, shall be of galvanized
sheet metal (refer to table 603.4 of the State Mechanical Code).
Exceptions are, as allowed by 603.4, sheetrock lined parts of the
building structure, if approved by the Building Official;

         (b)   Installation of flexible non-metallic duct, and flexible
metallic duct, material is prohibited, with the following exceptions:
When a suspended ceiling is to be installed, the final connections not
to exceed six feet, may be flexible duct material, or as approved by the
Building Official;

         (c)   All types of wiring, including thermostat, non-metallic
cable, and alarm systems wiring, shall not be installed anywhere in the
duct system;

         (d)   All joints, and connections, must be mechanically
fastened (sheet metal screws, or other approved fasteners), and sealed
with welds, gaskets, or mastic, and UL approved tape, as approved by the
Building Official;

         (e)   Ducts shall be suspended to allow at least 12 inches for
insulation, as per State Energy Code; and

         (f)   Return air platform, plenum, duct, or space shall be
lined, and sealed, so as to be made airtight.

      (3)   HVAC electrical connections.

         (a)   All electrical connections shall be an approved
disconnect within six feet of each piece of heating and air-conditioning
equipment, and readily accessible (cord and plug connections are allowed
on inside gas hearing units, if accessible, and installed in accordance
with N.E.C.); and

         (b)   A receptacle for service equipment shall be installed
within six feet of the equipment, and may be installed upstream from the
equipment disconnect where provided.

      (4)   Fuel line connections.

         (a)   As a minimum, rigid steel piping, of at least schedule
40, must extend through the sheet metal cabinet where the final
connections may be made using an approved flexible connector; and

         (b)   Fuel line piping shall not be installed within any part
of the air system of the HVAC system, including ducts and plenums.

      (5)   Fireplace enclosures. Fireplace enclosures shall be
fire-stopped at each ceiling level, or attic space, in order to stop the
unrestricted path of fire to the attic, or other concealed spaces; and

      (6)   Bathroom exhaust fans. Section 501.3, exception 2 is
deleted. All bath exhaust fans will be vented outside, or to a vented
soffit.

(Prior Code, § 11.16.02)

   (C)   Filed. Three copies of this code have been, and are now, on
file in the office of the City Hall, and the same are hereby adopted,
and incorporated, as if they are set out at length herein. From the date
on which this section shall take effect, the provisions of the
aforementioned code shall be controlling in the construction of all
buildings, and other structures, within the corporate limits of the
city.

(Prior Code, § 11.16.03)

(Ord. 2004-16, passed - -; Ord. 2023-09, passed 7-25-2023)

§ 150.003 BUILDING GUIDELINES.

   (A)   Guidelines.

      (1)   All residential structures must be on a concrete footer and
foundation that meets the Southern Building Code specifications and
codes.

      (2)   All residential structures with a crawl space shall be
supported on the perimeter with masonry, and the interior with peers,
spacing, and dimensions to meet the Southern Building Code.

      (3)   All residential structures shall have a base structure of a
width of not less than 20 feet.

      (4)   All patios, porches, decks, and exterior railing shall be
constructed of pressure treated lumber, concrete, or weather resistant
products engineered for outdoor use.

      (5)   All residential structures shall have a minimum overhang of
12 inches.

      (6)   Gales from the top plate line to the roof decking shall be
backed with plywood or OSB.

      (7)   Street parking shall not be longer than 24 hours, and not be
an obstruction for emergency vehicles.

(Prior Code, § 11.08.01)

   (B)   Water used for construction. Commencing on September 29, 2003,
all water used for construction of lines, sanitizing, and flushing of
lines, and water used in testing the water quality and conditions of
these lines, be billed back to the construction company. A metering
system will be applied to these lines to determine the correct amount of
flow used, and proper billing will ensue.

(Prior Code, § 11.08.02)

(Ord. 2003-12, passed - -; Ord. 2004-10, passed - -)

§ 150.004 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.

   (A)   Adopted by reference. The City Council does hereby adopt, by
reference, the Arkansas Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, or most current
edition.

   (B)   Maintenance of copies; public view and inspection. Three copies
have been, and now are, kept in the office of the City Clerk.

(Ord. 2023-12, passed 7-25-2023)

§ 150.005 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE ADOPTED.

   (A)   Adopted by reference. The City Council does hereby adopt, by
reference, NFPA 70, National Electric Code, 2020 Edition, or most
current edition.

   (B)   Maintenance of copies; public view and inspection. Three copies
have been, and now are, kept in the office of the City Clerk.

(Ord. 2023-11, passed 7-25-2023)

BUILDING PERMITS

§ 150.015 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMIT FEE.

   (A)   Valuation. The city shall determine the valuation of a
structure using the International Code Council (ICC) building valuation
data table. The ICC building valuation data table can be found at
iccsafe.org. The building valuation data table is updated every six
months. Once the valuation is determined, the following formulae are
used to calculate permit fees.

 

  ---------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Structural Value             Building Permit Fee
  $1,000 or less               No fee, unless an inspection is required, in which case, the single phase of construction or miscellaneous inspection fee shall apply
  $1,000.01 up to $50,000      $50 for the first $1,000, plus $5 for each additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, up to and including $50,000
  $50,000.01 up to $100,000    $260 for the first $50,000, plus $4 for each additional § 1,000, or fraction thereof, up to and including $100,000
  $100,000.01 up to $500,000   $460 for the first $100,000, plus $3 for each additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, up to and including $500,000
  $500,000.01 on up            $1,660 for the first $500,000, plus $2 for each additional $1,000, or fraction thereof
  ---------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

      (1)   Electrical, mechanical, and plumbing permit fees.
Electrical, mechanical, and plumbing fees shall be paid by the
appropriate licensed subcontractor prior to the start of the trade work,
or in addition with building permits by the general contractor, owner,
or applicant according to fee schedule as stated in the chart below.

 

  ---------------- ---------------
  Square Footage   Fee per Trade
  0 to 1,500       $100
  1,501 to 2,000   $115
  2,001 to 3,000   $130
  3,001 or more    $155
  ---------------- ---------------

 

      (2)   Education fee or surcharge. Non-residential construction
permits must include an education fee or charged at the rate of $0.50
per $1,000 valuation up to a maximum of $1,000 per project, as set forth
by the relevant rules and regulations set forth by the State Department
of Finance and Administration in division (B) below.

   (B)   Non-residential construction surcharge regulation 1999-2.
Pursuant to the authority granted by Act 474 of 1999, the Director of
the Department of Finance and Administration, in compliance with A.C. §
25-15-204, does hereby promulgate the following rules and regulations
for the enforcement and administration of state law.

      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B), the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.

         NON-RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION PERMIT. Any construction permit
issued by a political subdivision of the state for a non-residential
construction project.

         NON-RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. Construction of a
building or structure for any use other than a residential construction
project.

         RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. Any project consisting of one
unit, but not more than four units, of new construction for residential
occupancy.

         SURCHARGE. A fee to be collected at the rate of $0.50 per each
one $1,000 of construction authorized on non-residential construction
permits issued by a political subdivision.

         UNIT. Includes any building or structure intended for use as a
residence or living quarters for an individual or his or her family, and
shall include any storage buildings, utility buildings, garages, or
fences appurtenant thereto.

      (2)   Effective date. Effective August 1, 1999, every political
subdivision of the state shall collect a surcharge in the amount of
$0.50 per each $1,000 of construction authorized on any non-residential
construction permit issued by any political subdivision of the state.
Each subdivision of the state shall be limited to collecting a maximum
surcharge of $1,000 on each non-residential construction project
receiving a permit.

      (3)   Administration. The office of the political subdivision
issuing the permit is responsible for remitting the surcharge to the
Department of Finance and Administration, Miscellaneous Tax Section.
This remittance must be made by the fifteenth day of the month following
the month in which the fee was collected. The remittance shall be made
on reports prescribed by the Director. The political subdivision shall
retain 5% of each permit surcharge to cover the cost of administration.

      (4)   Audit and records. Each political subdivision shall submit a
report with remittance of the surcharge to the Department on the
fifteenth day of the month following collection of the surcharge. The
report shall detail the total dollar amount of non-residential
construction permits issued by the political subdivision for the month,
the total dollar amount of surcharge remitted to the Department for the
month, the total dollar amount retained by the political subdivision for
administrative cost, and any other information requested by the
Department related to the collection of the surcharge. The Department of
Finance and Administration shall audit and administer the surcharge in
accordance with the State Tax Procedure Act, being A.C. §§ 26-18-101 et
seq. Each political subdivision of the state is required to maintain
records relating to the issuance of non-residential construction permits
and the collection of the surcharge from such issuance in accordance
with the record keeping requirements of the State Tax Procedure Act,
being A.C. §§ 26-18-101 et seq.

   (C)   All building permit fees non-refundable. No building permit fee
(including electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and the like) shall be
refunded by the city once collected, regardless of whether or not
construction has taken place.

   (D)   All new residential construction fees. Electrical, mechanical,
and plumbing construction fees shall be paid by the appropriate licensed
subcontractor prior to the start of that trade work or in addition to
building permits by the general contractor, owner, or applicant
according to fee schedule as stated.

   (E)   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter shall be
applicable to any buildings in the city presently under construction
without a specific act of the City Council.

   (F)   Waiver. The City Council may, for just cause, specifically
waive certain requirements of chapter after consideration, especially in
those cases wherein code requirements could create undue or unfair
hardships.

(Prior Code, § 11.12.01) (2021-32, passed 9-27-2021)

§ 150.016 ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE.

   (A)   Residential electrical permits are based on the total square
foot under roof, and are set forth on the chart below. The base fee for
commercial electricity is $50.

 

  -------------------------- ---------------------
  Bid/Valuation Amount       To be Multiplied by
  $0 up to $10,000           x0.01
  $10,000.01 up to $20,000   x0.005
  $ 20,000.01 or more        x0.0025
  -------------------------- ---------------------

 

   (B)   Electricians must use a minimum of 12-gauge wire in any new
construction (e.g., residential/commercial), and must use the new N.E.C.
Electrical Codes (note: the trench for running the electric to the house
is a minimum of 24 feet deep).

   (C)   The city requires that the electrical subcontractor present a
copy of his or her current electrician’s license.

   (D)   Commercial mechanical fees shall include a base fee of $50,
plus the initial bid/valuation amount x0.005.

(Prior Code, § 11.12.02) (2021-32, passed 9-27-2021)

§ 150.017 PLUMBING PERMIT FEE.

   (A)   The city shall collect fees based on the fee schedule stated
below.

 

  ----------------------------------------------------- ---------
  Commercial Plumbing Service                           Fees
  Base fee                                              $50
  Fixtures (e.g., bathtubs, lavatories, and the like)   $3 each
  In-house water and drainage piping                    $7 each
  Yard lines (e.g., water, sewer, gas, and the like)    $7 each
  ----------------------------------------------------- ---------

 

   (B)   The city requires that the plumbing subcontractor present a
copy of his or her current plumber’s license.

(Prior Code, § 11.12.03) (2021-32, passed 9-27-2021)

§ 150.018 SWIMMING POOLS; PERMIT FEE.

   (A)   Design barriers. The provisions of this section shall apply to
design of barriers to all swimming pools. These design controls are
intended to provide protection against the potential drowning and near
drowning by restricting access to such swimming pools.

   (B)   In-ground pool requirements. All outdoor in-ground swimming
pools shall be surrounded by a barrier. When (in-ground/below-grade) hot
tubs are within the confines of a pool, this section shall be applicable
as well.

      (1)   The top of the barrier shall be not less than 48 inches
above grade. Such height shall exist around the entire perimeter of the
swimming pool.

      (2)   Openings in the barrier shall not allow passage of a
four-inch diameter sphere.

      (3)   The site plan for swimming pool, barrier, and septic with
lateral lines shall be submitted with swimming pool application.

      (4)   Swimming pool fences and gates are required to have a
minimum height of four feet and a maximum height of eight feet.
Additionally, gates must have child-resistant latches.

   (C)   Above ground swimming pool barrier.

      (1)   An above-ground pool wall, itself, shall be permitted to be
the barrier where the pool structure is on grade and the wall is
above-grade for the entire perimeter of the pool.

      (2)   Where the mean of access is a ladder or steps, the ladder or
steps shall be capable of being secure, locked, or removed to prevent
access, or the ladder or steps shall be surrounded by a barrier that
meets the barrier requirements set forth in division (B) above.

   (D)   Gates. Access gates shall be equipped to accommodate a locking
device. Pedestrian access gates shall open outward, away from swimming
pool, and shall be self-closing and have a self-latching device.

   (E) Requirements.

      (1)   Application shall require a plan review minimum of two
weeks. A site plan is required for the location of the pool and meets
all requirements according to Appendix Exhibit 1.2, Site Plan, of the
zoning ordinance.

      (2)   Pre-site visit: For barriers, the pool layout, utility
locations, septic locations shall be marked.

      (3)   Electrical bonding: Pool bonding, deck bonding, and
equipment bonding per NEC 2017 requirements shall be included.

      (4)   Plumbing: Gas pressure, gas yard line, and gas service per
APC 2006, or the most current edition, shall be included.

      (5)   Scheduling inspections: Applicants should contact the City
Building Inspection Department for inspection requests.

   (F)   Fees. Swimming pool fees are as follows:

      (1)   The swimming pool permit fee shall be $250, with electric or
plumbing permits also required.

      (2)   The completion deposit for fence barriers shall be $1,000.
Fees are to be paid prior to a swimming pool permit issuance.

      (3)   If a perimeter fence is pre-existing and in compliance with
the provisions herein, it is exempt from the deposit requirement.

      (4)   A perimeter (privacy) fence meeting the provisions contained
herein shall be installed prior to release of pool permit and prior to
any construction. An opening is allowed for access of equipment to
construct the pool. The completion deposit shall be applicable.

      (5)   If a perimeter fence is to be installed only around the pool
and not the perimeter (privacy fence), then the completion deposit shall
be required prior to release of permits and construction.

   (G)   Violation. If water is placed in a pool prior to barrier
installation, then the completion deposit shall be surrendered to the
city. Any fines assessment shall still be applicable.

(Prior Code, § 11.12.04) (2021-32, passed 9-27-2021)

§ 150.019 SEWER INSTALLATION PERMIT FEE.

   (A)   The city shall collect a fee of $70 for sewer tank and pump
installation required for the step-system.

   (B)   The city requires that the sewer installer present a copy of
his or her current sewer installer’s license.

(Prior Code, § 11.12.05) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)

§ 150.020 HEATING AND COOLING PERMIT FEES (HVAC).

   (A)   The city shall collect a fee of $50 for the first heating,
and/or air conditioning, unit, and $20 for each additional unit. This
fee applies to residential, commercial, and industrial uses.

   (B)   The subcontractor must present the Manual “J”, along with his
or her current HVAC license, when requesting an HVAC permit.

(Prior Code, § 11.12.06) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)

§ 150.021 RPZ VALUE INSTALLATION PERMIT FEE.

   (A)   The city shall collect a fee of $35 for RPZ valve installation
permits. One inspection is required after the installation is complete.

   (B)   The city requires that the RPZ valve installer present a copy
of his or her current installer license.

(Prior Code, § 11.12.07) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)

§ 150.022 RE-INSPECTION FEES.

   The city shall collect a minimum of $35, or the actual costs of the
reinspection, for each reinspection.

(Prior Code, § 11.12.08) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)

§ 150.023 RESIDENTIAL RENOVATION/MODIFICATION PERMIT FEES.

   The residential renovation/modification permit fees are applicable
only if electrical, plumbing, or HVAC modification/additions are made.
There shall be paid a $75 permit fee, plus $35 per inspection required
under this section. The number of inspections required shall be
determined by the Building Official. All new additions will be charged
on the same basis as new construction.

(Prior Code, § 11.12.09) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)

§ 150.024 AGRICULTURE RENOVATION/MODIFICATION PERMIT FEES.

   For the area from one to 500 square feet, the city shall collect a
fee of $35, plus $0.10 per square foot for each additional square foot
over 500 square feet.

(Prior Code, § 11.12.10) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)

§ 150.025 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PERMIT FEES.

 

  ------------------------------- ----------------------
  Type of Commercial/Industrial   Cost per Square Foot
  Assembly                        $0.32
  Business                        $0.29
  Factory/high hazard             $0.18
  Hospital                        $0.41
  Institutional                   $0.32
  Warehouse                       $0.14
  ------------------------------- ----------------------

 

(Prior Code, § 11.12.11) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)

§ 150.026 MISCELLANEOUS FEES.

  ---------------------- -----
  Service or Structure   Fee
  ---------------------- -----

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------
  Service or Structure                                                       Fee
  Backflow prevention or RPZ                                                 $50
  Cleanup completion deposit for demolition, house moving, and the like      $500
  Demolition (requires a 20-yard minimum dumpster on site)                   $100 with a cleanup deposit of $500
  Fireworks tent/stand, haunted house, and the like                          $50
  House moving/manufacturing (requires a 20-yard minimum dumpster on site)   $100 with a cleanup deposit of $500
  Miscellaneous/single phase construction                                    $50
  Permit renewal/extension                                                   $50
  Re-inspection                                                              $55
  Sewer installation permit for STEP system                                  $70 for sewer tank and pump
  Storm shelter fee (site plan and permit shall be required)                 $120
  Swimming pool fee (not to include electric or plumbing permits)            $250
                                                                             
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------

 

   (A)   All cross-connection, RPZ, and backflow prevention devices
shall require an inspection and reporting to the city on an annual basis
or a at such rate and frequency as required by state law or state
regulations.

   (B)   A cleanup completion deposit is required in the amount of $500
for demolition, house moving, and the like. This deposit shall be
refunded upon completion of work, whereas no unsanitary, unsightly,
trash, or health hazard to the public exists. If such conditions exist,
then deposit shall be forfeited and the city can do as deemed necessary
by law to ensure the site is cleaned up.

   (C)   A house moving/manufacturing fee shall be accompanied by proof
of a state DOT permit.

   (D)   A certificate of occupancy deposit/completion deposit may
accompany a building permit if deemed necessary by Department of
Building Safety. Each completion deposit shall be equal to 50% of the
total building permit fee. This deposit shall be refunded upon issuance
of a certificate of occupancy for the building. If occupancy has taken
place prior to certificate of occupancy issuance, then deposit shall be
forfeited.

(2021-32, passed 9-27-2021)

§ 150.027 AUTHORITY.

   The city is hereby authorized, and directed, to collect the
above-referenced fees, and charges, in connection with the various items
listed therein, to be paid by the applicants therefor at the time of
making the application, and/or request, for the above-referenced
service, with all said sums to be deposited into the General Fund of the
city.

(Prior Code, § 11.12.12) (Ord. 2014-12, passed - -)

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS

§ 150.040 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.

   BUILDING PERMIT. A written permit issued by the city for the
construction, erection, alteration, remodeling, or repair of a RV park.

   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The person designated by the City Council to
enforce this subchapter.

   HEALTH OFFICER. The county sanitarian, or other legally designated
health authority, of the city.

   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, or
association.

   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission.

   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A wheeled vehicle which is not permanently
attached to the ground; it may be self-propelled or towed, it is
equipped with sleeping, cooking, and sanitary facilities, and it is
designed for temporary occupancy mainly for vacations, camping, or
extended travel.

   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A lot, parcel, or tract of land designed,
maintained, and intended for the purpose of supplying a location for
three, or more, recreational vehicles, including all accessory
structures.

(Prior Code, § 15.08.01) (Ord. 96, passed - -)

§ 150.041 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.

   (A)   All RV parks shall have frontage on, and direct access to, an
arterial, or collector, as identified by the City Master Street Plan.

   (B)   All RV parks shall be processed as large scale developments, as
required by the zoning ordinance.

   (C)   The access drives, and parking pads, shall be paved with a
dust-free hard surface.

   (D)   All RV parks shall be provided with central, and separate
(male, female), lavatory facilities and showers, and central human waste
disposal and solid waste disposal facilities.

   (E)   Each parking pad shall be equipped with electrical hook-ups.

   (F)   All RV parks shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and healthy
manner.

   (G)   Water and sewage disposal facilities shall be provided in each
RV park, and shall be approved by the city and the Health Department.

(Prior Code, § 15.08.02) (Ord. 96, passed - -)

§ 150.042 PERMIT.

   Once the large scale development plan is approved by the city, the
developer shall apply for a building permit to construct the RV park. No
RV park shall be constructed, or operated, in the city without a
building permit.

(Prior Code, § 15.08.03) (Ord. 96, passed - -)

§ 150.043 ENFORCEMENT.

   It shall be the duty of the Enforcement Officer to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter, and to investigate all alleged
violations. The Enforcement Officer shall notify, in writing, the RV
park owner of any violation, and the owner shall have 30 days to correct
any violations. If the owner does not correct the violation in 30 days,
the Enforcement Officer shall notify the City Council, in writing, and
the City Council may take whatever legal action is necessary to correct
the violation.

(Prior Code, § 15.08.04) (Ord. 96, passed - -)

MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS

§ 150.055 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.

   AUTOMOBILE TRAILER, TRAILER COACH, or TRAILER. Any vehicle, or
structure, designed, and constructed, to permit occupancy thereof as
sleeping quarters for one, or more, persons, or the conduct of any
business, profession, occupation, or trade, or used as a selling, or
advertising, device, and so designated that it is, or may be, mounted on
wheels, and used as a conveyance on streets or highways, propelled, or
drawn, by its own, or other, motive power, except a device used
exclusively upon stationary rails, or tracks.

   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a flush
toilet and a bath, or shower. No DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME may be set, or
remain set, with the city after the passage of this subchapter.

   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has a flush toilet and a
bath, or shower.

   MOBILE HOME. A manufactured, re-locatable living unit, specifically
meaning a non-self propelled vehicle, or similar portable structure,
used, or so constructed, as to permit its being transported upon the
public streets, or highways, and duly licensable as such, and designed
to be used, with or without a permanent foundation, as a dwelling, or
for sleeping purposes.

   MODULAR HOME. A manufactured living unit constructed of two, or more,
sections designed to permit its being transported upon the public
streets, or highways, solely for the purpose of moving it to a permanent
site, and permanent foundation. The unit must have a minimum roof
overhand of 12 inches, and a minimum pitch of one and one-half inches
per foot. A MODULAR HOME, as described above, will not be classed as a
mobile home.

   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, company, corporation,
tenant, owner, lessee, or licensee, their agents, heirs, or assigns.

   PLACED or SET. Situated upon a foundation, tied down, or connected by
any means to any utility service of the city, or occupied as living, or
sleeping, quarters by one, or more, persons.

   TRAILER. See AUTOMOBILE TRAILER, TRAILER COACH, or TRAILER.

   TRAILER COACH. See AUTOMOBILE TRAILER, TRAILER COACH, or TRAILER.

   TRAILER PARK.

      (1)   Any park, trailer court, campsite, lot, parcel, or tract of
land zoned, and approved, by City Council for the purpose of supplying a
location, or accommodations, for trailer coaches, and upon which trailer
coaches are parked, and shall include all buildings used, or intended
for use, as a part of the equipment thereof whether a charge is made for
the use of the trailer camp, and its facilities, or not.

      (2)   TRAILER PARK shall not include automobile or trailer sales
lots on which unoccupied trailers are parked for purposes of inspection
and sale.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.01) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.056 PLACEMENT.

   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any mobile home, independent or
dependent, to be placed, or set, in any area, or upon any lot or
property, in the city from the date of adoption hereof, and the
placement of any mobile home shall be illegal, except when placed in
mobile home developments.

   (B)   The mobile homes which exist prior to the date of adoption of
this subchapter, shall comply with inspection provisions of this
subchapter in § 150.060.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.02) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
150.999

§ 150.057 HOMES IN LOCATION.

   All mobile homes set within the corporate limits as of the date of
the adoption of this subchapter shall be considered legally, and
properly, permitted, except as subject to the inspection provisions of
this subchapter.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.03) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.058 PERMIT DECAL.

   All owners of mobile homes set, as of the date of this subchapter, in
the corporate limits of the city shall be required, within 90 days of
the passage of this subchapter, to register their mobile home with the
Building Official, and to obtain a permit decal for the mobile home at
no cost, or fee, to the owner.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.04) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.059 REGISTRATION FORM.

   Each registration form shall include the following information:

   (A)   Serial number of the mobile home;

   (B)   Location of the mobile home by legal description and street
address;

   (C)   Name, and address, of legal owner(s) of the mobile home; and

   (D)   Date of registration.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.05) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.060 INSPECTION.

   Each mobile home within the city shall be subject to inspection for
compliance with electrical, and plumbing, codes on each reconnection of
utilities, or upon evidence of violation of plumbing, or electrical,
requirements, or minimum area requirements for mobile homes, as set
forth in Ord. 49, Art. VI, § 5.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.06) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.061 RECORDS.

   The Building Official shall keep a record of all permit decals issued
by the city, said record to reflect the information contained in the
permit registration, and the date of issuance. The Building Official
shall keep a record of the physical location, inspection, and
registration and permit status of each mobile home in the city, and
shall report the status of all non-permit mobile homes to the City
Council at least once each quarter of each year.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.07) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.062 DECALS.

   Permit decals shall be five inches by seven inches in size, green in
color with white lettering, which shall indicate, in bold numbering, the
issuance date of the permit decal, and shall also identify the address
location, serial number, and specific issuance date of the mobile home.
Each mobile home permit decal shall be sequentially numbered, said
permit decal number to correspond to a registration card. Each permit
decal shall be prominently displayed to the right of the main entry to
each mobile home.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.08) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.063 EXCEPTIONS.

   No permit decal shall be issued for any mobile home after date of
this subchapter, except for the following:

   (A)   Decals will be permitted to existing mobile homes only; and

   (B)   Decals will be issued for new mobile homes if they are located
in mobile home developments, and other provisions of this subchapter are
met.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.09) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.064 POWERS OF PLANNING COMMISSION.

   The City Planning Commission will hear any variance cases, as set
forth in said section, pursuant to the following procedure. The powers
and duties given to the Planning Commission, found in § 32.21, as hereby
amended, shall include the following powers and duties:

   (A)   Enforcing the provisions of this subchapter, and other
ordinance provisions relating to trailers and trailer parks, and mobile
homes;

   (B)   The Planning Commission, or its duly authorized
representatives, may enter upon the premises of any trailer park, or
mobile home, at any reasonable time for purposes of inspection, and
enforcement;

   (C)   Issuing orders granting, and revoking, permits under the
provisions of this section; and

   (D)   Establishing rules, regulations, and criteria for the granting,
or denying, of permits.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.10) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.065 APPLICATION FEE.

   Any application to the Planning Commission for relief under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be accompanied by payment of a $10
fee.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.11) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.066 PUBLIC HEARING.

   (A)   Upon application to the Planning Commission for relief under
the provisions of this subchapter, the Planning Commission shall, as
soon as practical, set a date, and time, certain for a public hearing on
said application.

   (B)   The applicant shall notify all adjoining property owners,
and/or those within 300 feet of the property boundaries, of the date,
and time, of the hearing, of the proposed location of the mobile home,
or automobile trailer, the proposed use of same, purpose therefor, and
proposed duration of time the automobile trailer is expected to remain.
The notification shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested.

   (C)   The Planning Commission shall, not less than four days prior to
the public hearing on the application, publish, in a local newspaper of
general circulation, the date, time, place, and purpose of the public
hearing.

   (D)   The Planning Commission shall cause a sign to be placed on, or
near, the proposed location for the automobile trailer, or mobile home,
giving notice to the public that an application has been filed that a
public hearing is to be held on said application, and who to contact to
obtain further information concerning the application, and hearing.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.12) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.067 PARKING ON STREETS.

   No person shall, within the city, park any trailer on any street,
alley, or highway, other public place, or on any tract of land owned by
any person, occupied or unoccupied, except as provided in the herein.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.13) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.068 PARKING ON PREMISES.

   No person shall park, or occupy, any trailer on the premises of any
occupied dwelling, or on any lot which is not a part of the premises of
any occupied dwelling, either of which is situated outside an approved
trailer park. The parking of unoccupied trailers in an accessory private
garage building, or in a rear yard, is prohibited, except as permitted
under § 150.069.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.14) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
150.999

§ 150.069 TEMPORARY STOPPING.

   Emergency, or temporary, stopping, or parking, of a trailer is
permitted on any street, alley, or highway, for no longer than one hour,
subject to any other, and further, prohibitions, regulations, or
limitations imposed by the traffic, and parking, provisions of the
ordinance for that street, alley, or highway.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.15) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.070 AUTOMOBILE TRAILERS.

   (A)   Automobile trailers shall not be used as a permanent place of
abode, or as a permanent dwelling, or for indefinite periods of time.

   (B)   It shall be permitted for a guest to park an automobile trailer
on the premises of an occupied dwelling for a period not to exceed 14
days.

   (C)   It shall be permitted for an evangelist, or team of
evangelists, to park, and occupy, an automobile trailer on church
property for a period not to exceed 14 days, unless such time period may
be extended by special permit issued by the city, so long as the
parking, and occupancy, is related to a revival, seminar, concert, or
planned church function.

(Prior Code, § 15.12.16) (Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994)

§ 150.999 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which
no specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to § 10.99.

   (B)   A.C. § 14-54-103 empowers municipal corporations to adopt
ordinances to provide for the safety, health, comfort, and convenience
of the city. Violation to the Mechanical Code shall be considered a
violation of § 150.002, and shall be punishable as a misdemeanor
offense. Violation of any of the Mechanical Code adopted as a result of
§ 150.002, or other provisions of § 150.002, shall be punishable by a
fine up to $250 per day that the violations continue.

(Prior Code, § 11.16.04)

   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating any
of the provisions of §§ 150.015 through 150.027 shall be subject to a
fine not greater than the sum of $500 for any one specified offense or
violation of §§ 150.015 through 150.027, or double that sum for each
repetition of such offense or violation. If the thing prohibited or
rendered unlawful is, in its nature, continuous in respect to time, the
fine or penalty for allowing the continuance thereof in violation of §§
150.015 through 150.027 shall not exceed $250 for each day that the same
may be unlawfully continued.

   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §§ 150.040 through
150.043 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than
$25, and each day’s failure to comply shall constitute a separate
violation.

(Prior Code, § 15.08.05)

   (E)   Violation or failure to comply with the provisions of §§
150.056 through 150.070 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
$25 per day. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. The owner or tenant of any mobile home who commits,
participates in, or maintains such violation may be found guilty of a
separate offense and will suffer the penalties provided in §§ 150.056
through 150.070. Nothing contained in §§ 150.056 through 150.070 shall
prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent the remedy of any violation.

(Ord. 96, passed - -; Ord. 126, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 2004-16, passed -
-; Ord. 2021-32, passed 9-27-2021)

CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY

Section

Ditches or Trenches

   151.01   Purpose

   151.02   Construction or trenches

   151.03   Laying cable or pipe

   151.04   Return of bond

   151.05   Regulation for cables and pipes

Street Naming

   151.20   Purpose

   151.21   Street address map

   151.22   Centerlines

   151.23   Street names

   151.24   Address numbers

   151.25   Signs, numbers, and system maintenance

   151.26   Number assignment

   151.27   Amendments

   151.28   Coordination with 911 Emergency Service Data Center

 

   151.99   Penalty

DITCHES OR TRENCHES

§ 151.01 PURPOSE.

   Because repairing city streets and roads is very expensive, the city
does hereby adopt this subchapter for the purpose of setting a bond
amount for construction near city streets or roads, for ditching across
city streets or roads, and for roadside ditching.

(Prior Code, § 9.04.01) (Ord. 97-4, passed - -)

§ 151.02 CONSTRUCTION OR TRENCHES.

   Any individual, organization, business, corporation, or public
utility desiring to perform construction near a city street, or road,
desiring to cut a ditch, or trench, across any city street, or road, for
any purpose, shall notify the Planning Commission, or its agent, and
post bond in the amount of $500.

(Prior Code, § 9.04.02) (Ord. 97-4, passed - -)

§ 151.03 LAYING CABLE OR PIPE.

   Any individual, organization, business, corporation, or public
utility desiring to cut trenches, ditches, lay cable, or pipe or other
device, or otherwise disturb the existing right-of-way of a city street
or road, for any purpose, shall notify the Planning Commission, or its
agent, and post bond in the amount of $2,000 for each mile.

(Prior Code, § 9.04.03) (Ord. 97-4, passed - -)

§ 151.04 RETURN OF BOND.

   The bond shall continue in effect until approval of completion. The
bond shall be returned upon the proper restoration of the city street,
or road, and upon inspection, and approval, by the Planning Commission,
or its agent.

(Prior Code, § 9.04.04) (Ord. 97-4, passed - -)

§ 151.05 REGULATION FOR CABLES AND PIPES.

   All cable, pipe, or other devices buried on city rights-of-way must
be placed at least 36 inches below the ground at the point of
entrenchment.

(Prior Code, § 9.04.05) (Ord. 97-4, passed - -)

STREET NAMING

§ 151.20 PURPOSE.

   This subchapter establishes a system for assigning street names and
address numbers which will assist the public, and private, sector in
locating individual streets, buildings, and places in an easy, and
logical, manner, and for the protection of public health, and safety, of
all persons living, working, or visiting in the city.

(Prior Code, § 9.08.01) (Ord. 83, passed - -)

§ 151.21 STREET ADDRESS MAP.

   (A)   The official street address map is a part of this subchapter,
and shall contain the ordinance numbers and certifications which appear
upon this document. The map shall identify all named streets, numbering
centerlines, and block numbering grids which specify address number
ranges. A typical section of land shall be divided into 16 blocks, or
grids, north/south and east/west. Each grid interval shall be 330 feet,
except in non-standard areas identified on the map.

   (B)   The official street address map shall be automatically undated
upon final plat approval of any plat, or large scale development. The
map shall include a revision block which lists the date, and ordinance
number, of the latest change.

(Prior Code, § 9.08.02) (Ord. 83, passed - -)

§ 151.22 CENTERLINES.

   The address grid centroid is the intersection of Midway Street and
Main Avenue. The address numbers increase proceeding north, south, east,
and west. The north and south address centerline is a line extending
east and west from the grid centroid to the city limits. The east and
west address centerline is a line extending north and south from the
grid centroid to the city limits.

(Prior Code, § 9.08.03) (Ord. 83, passed - -)

§ 151.23 STREET NAMES.

   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the word STREET shall mean
all roadways, public and private, open for general public travel. Access
drives to apartments and commercial complexes shall not be considered as
STREETS, and shall not be named as such.

   (B)   Streets running east and west shall be identified with the
suffix “street” or “boulevard”. Streets running north and south shall be
identified with the suffix “avenue” or “road”.

   (C)   Streets which are also state and federal highways will be
identified by their local street name followed by their state, or
federal, designation in parentheses on the official street address map
(for example, N. Highway 59 (AR 59)).

   (D)   Cul-de-sac streets, which have only one entrance/exit, shall
not be called “avenue” or “road”, but shall have a suffix name such as
“cove”, “lane”, “place”, or “terrace” to indicate their dead end nature.

   (E)   Loop streets are circular, or rectangular, plan streets which
begin at one point, and end at another point along a commons street, and
do not connect to any other streets. The street name suffixes on these
streets must not be “road” or “avenue”, but shall be “loop”, “circle”,
“court”, or other name indicating a closed street layout.

(Prior Code, § 9.08.04) (Ord. 83, passed - -)

§ 151.24 ADDRESS NUMBERS.

   (A)   Address numbers shall be even on the north and west sides of
the street, and odd on the south and east sides of the street. One
hundred numbers shall be assigned to each identified grid block, with
the lowest number beginning at the point nearest the grid centerline.
Address numbers shall be determined by the number grid in which the
property is located.

   (B)    In new residential subdivision, each standard sized lot shall
be given a pre-assigned street number by the City Clerk-Treasurer upon
final plat approval. Address numbers will be assigned to large lots
relative to their capacity to be divided into two, or more, minimum
sized lots for the minimum width allowed by the zoning district. Address
numbers shall be assigned to lots in the appropriate odd, or even,
numerical sequence relative to their location, such as 201, 203, 205,
and the like.

   (C)   Address numbers for unplatted residential, and all other
non-residential, buildings shall be determined by calculation. The
distance from the center of the driveway to the last corner, or grid,
shall be measured to get a location number. The location number is then
divided by 3.30 to get the address. If the block number is 1200 and the
location number divided by 3.30 is 43, the address is 1243 or 1244,
depending upon which side of the street the building is located.

   (D)   When street intersections are within 120 feet of a grid line,
the number series change shall be made at the intersection to be more
logical to the public. When a long block faces two blocks divided by a
street, the number series on the long block shall change at the
intersection street so that houses facing each other will have
compatible addresses.

   (E)   Diagonal streets which run 45 degrees, or less, from a
north/south line will be numbered by the north/south grid, and those
more than 45 degrees from the north/south line will be numbered by the
east/west grid. Curving streets will be assigned numbers based upon the
grid of their greatest length. For instance, if the beginning is more
south than east of the end, then the north/south grid will be used.

   (F)   On loop streets and cul-de-sac streets address numbering shall
begin at the entrance nearest the grid centerline. Address numbers shall
increase, or decrease, relative to their initial movement from the grid
centerline, and continue to the opposite end as if the street were in a
straight line. Block number changes will be made every 330 feet, with
odd and even numbers remaining on the same side of the street as they
began.

   (G)   Apartment buildings on public streets shall be assigned
individual addresses. Apartments clustered about a central parking area
immediately facing a public street shall also be assigned separate
street addresses.

   (H)   When apartments are arranged along a private street, a sign
showing the apartment complex name, with public street address below it,
must be posted at the entrance. In these instances, each building is
lettered A, B, C, and the like, but a central postal facility for all
apartments must be located so it is readily accessible to a mail carrier
for the public street serving the complex.

   (I)   Each apartment must be identified on the exterior entrance by
number of building letter, and number for multiple buildings. The
numbers shall be in sequence (for example, 1, 2, 3, and the like).
Apartments in lettered buildings shall have the building letter as part
of each apartment number, such as B-210. When units are on multiple
floors, ground floor numbers shall be in the 100 series (101, 102, 103,
and so on), second floor in the 200 series (201, 202, 203, and so on),
and the like. If a common hallway is used for several apartments, the
external hallway entrance to each apartment shall contain a list of the
apartments served. When addressing townhouses, and other buildings
containing units separately owned, each address shall be placed upon the
principal external entryway to the unit.

   (J)   The official address for each apartment on a public street
shall be the building address followed by the apartment number, such as
“329 Fernway Avenue, Apt. B”. Addresses for units in apartment buildings
not on a public street shall include the public street address and the
building number with the apartment designation. The official address for
each apartment will be the public street address followed by the
building letter, a dash, and the apartment number, such as “329 Fernway
Avenue, Apt. C-104".

(Prior Code, § 9.08.05) (Ord. 83, passed - -)

§ 151.25 SIGNS, NUMBERS, AND SYSTEM MAINTENANCE.

   (A)   Public, and private, street signs shall be installed at the
expense of the original developer, and thereafter maintained by the
city.

   (B)   Private street signs shall be required. They shall conform to
the public street sign standards, except they shall have a blue
background with white letters.

   (C)   Only street name signs which are authorized by the City Council
shall be installed within the corporate limits of the city. All street
name signs, public or private, found not to conform with this subchapter
shall be removed by the City Council. Non-conforming, damaged, or
deteriorated public street signs shall be replaced as soon as possible
by the City Council.

   (D)    Requests for private street signs on existing streets shall be
submitted to the City Clerk-Treasurer. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall
forward authorization to the Mayor immediately upon completion, after
which the Mayor shall have the sign prepared and installed as soon as
possible.

   (E)   Address numbers shall be assigned by the city, and shall be
installed by the builder before final inspection, and shall be the
owner’s responsibility thereafter.

   (F)   Replacement of address numbers is required within 15 days after
written notice to the owner by the City Clerk-Treasurer. New, and
replacement, numbers must be placed so that they will be clearly visible
from the street of primary access to the building.

   (G)   Address numbers shall be a minimum of three inches high with
black block letters on a white background, and shall be visible from the
street. Other colors, which have sufficient contrast to be read from the
street under normal nighttime conditions, may be approved by the Mayor.
The numbers shall be placed as near as possible to the primary entrance
of the building, and preferably above the entrance doorway. The
location, style, size, and color of the required numbers shall be
approved by the Mayor. Appeals concerning numbers shall be made to the
City Council.

(Prior Code, § 9.08.06) (Ord. 83, passed - -)

§ 151.26 NUMBER ASSIGNMENT.

   (A)    Official records of address numbers shall be maintained by the
City Clerk-Treasurer. The City Council shall have the final authority to
change any assignment upon an appeal by any affected party.

   (B)   All proposed street names, and name changes, shall be reviewed
for continuity with this subchapter by the City Clerk-Treasurer, who
shall recommend alternative names when a proposed name duplicates, or is
so similar to an existing name, that confusion could hamper prompt
delivery of emergency services. The City Council shall hold a public
hearing on street name changes, and shall have the final authority to
change any assignment.

(Prior Code, § 9.08.07) (Ord. 83, passed - -)

§ 151.27 AMENDMENTS.

   On any proposed amendments to these regulations, or to the street
address map, the City Council shall hold a public hearing, a notice of
which shall be published in a local newspaper of general distribution,
at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing. Following the public
hearing, the City Council may adopt the amendment, or amendments, by a
majority vote of the City Council.

(Prior Code, § 9.08.08) (Ord. 83, passed - -)

§ 151.28 COORDINATION WITH 911 EMERGENCY SERVICE DATA CENTER.

   (A)    Following the naming of a new street, the renaming of an
existing street, a change of an existing street number, or the
assignment of a new street number, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify
the 911 Emergency Service Data Center on a form provided by the Center.

   (B)   The 911 Data Center shall not accept any street name or number
change, or number assignment, which is not on the form provided, and
signed by the City Clerk-Treasurer.

(Prior Code, § 9.08.09) (Ord. 83, passed - -)

§ 151.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which
no specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to § 10.99.

   (B)   Any person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity
found in violation of §§ 151.01 through 151.05 shall be subject to a
fine of not more than $250, with each day in violation of §§ 151.01
through 151.05 being considered a separate offense. In addition, the
city may, at the option of the City Council, bring an action to enjoin
the continued violation of §§ 151.01 through 151.05.

(Prior Code, § 9.04.06)

   (C)   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of §§ 151.20
through 151.28 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than
$10, nor more than $25, plus prosecution costs for each offense.

(Prior Code, § 9.08.10)

(Ord. 83, passed - -; Ord. 97-4, passed - -)

CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION

Section

   152.01   Statutory authority

   152.02   Findings of fact

   152.03   Statement of purpose

   152.04   Chapter application

   152.05   Methods of reducing flood losses

   152.06   Flood Damage Prevention Code adopted

   152.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions

   152.08   Interpretation

   152.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability

   152.10   Compliance; non-compliance

 

   152.99   Penalty

§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.

   The legislature of the state has, in A.C. §§ 14-268-101 et seq.,
delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt
regulations to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City Council does
hereby ordain as follows.

(Prior Code, § 14.12.01) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)

§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.

   (A)   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has identified
special flood hazard areas of the city in the current scientific, and
engineering, report entitled “The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Benton
County, Arkansas, and incorporated areas” (dated revised: June 5, 2012),
with an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) (date revised: June 5,
2012).

   (B)   These special flood hazard areas are subject to periodic
flooding events that result in loss of life, and property, pose health
and safety hazards, disrupt commerce and governmental services, and
cause extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.

   (C)   These periodic flooding events are exacerbated by the
cumulative effect of floodplain developments, which cause an increase in
flood heights and velocities, and by the placement of inadequately
elevated, inadequately flood proofed, or otherwise unprotected
structures, or uses, vulnerable to floods into special flood hazard
areas. Such structures, or uses, are inherently hazardous to other lands
because of their adverse impact on flooding events.

(Prior Code, § 14.12.02) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)

§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.

   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare, to prevent adverse impacts from any
floodplain development activities, and to minimize public, and private,
losses due to flooding events in identified special flood hazard areas.

   (B)   This chapter advances the stated purpose in division (A) above
through provisions designed to:

      (1)   Protect human life and health;

      (2)   Protect natural floodplains against unwise development;

      (3)   Eliminate adverse impacts of necessary floodplain
development;

      (4)   Minimize expenditure of public monies on flood control
projects;

      (5)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated
with flooding, and generally undertaken at the expense of the general
public;

      (6)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions due to flooding
events;

      (7)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as
water and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, and streets
and bridges located in special flood hazard areas;

      (8)   Minimize future flood blight areas to help maintain a stable
tax base; and

      (9)   Provide for notice to potential buyers when property is in a
special flood hazard area.

(Prior Code, § 14.12.03) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)

§ 152.04 CHAPTER APPLICATION.

   The chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of the city.

(Prior Code, § 14.12.04) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)

§ 152.05 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.

   This chapter uses the following methods to accomplish the stated
purpose.

   (A)   This chapter restricts, or prohibits, structures, or uses, in
special flood hazard areas that adversely impact health, safety, or
property during flooding events.

   (B)   This chapter requires protection against flood damage for
structures, or uses, vulnerable to floods at the time of initial
construction, or after substantial improvement of the structure, or
after substantial damage has occurred.

   (C)   This chapter controls the alteration of natural floodplains,
stream channels, and natural protective barriers which are involved in
the accommodation, and transport, of floodwaters.

   (D)   This chapter controls floodplain development (structural
development, placement of manufactured structures, clearing, grading,
mining, drilling, dredging, placement of fill, excavating, watercourse
alteration, drainage improvements, roadway or bridge construction,
individual water or sewer installations, and other activities) which may
increase flood damage by increasing flood elevations, floodwater
velocities, or flood discharge patterns.

   (E)   This chapter regulates the construction of flood barriers which
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may adversely impact other
lands.

(Prior Code, § 14.12.05) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)

§ 152.06 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.

   (A)   The city has published notice, as required by law, to adopt the
Flood Damage Prevention Code as a technical code by reference. The city
has had, and shall continue to have, three copies of the Flood Damage
Prevention Code on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer for
inspection, and copying, by the public. The Flood Damage Prevention Code
for the city is dated December 17, 2007.

   (B)   The code shall include:

      (1)   “ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS”;

      (2)   “ARTICLE 2 ADMINISTRATION”; and

      (3)   “ARTICLE 3 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION”.

(Prior Code, § 14.12.06) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)

§ 152.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.

   This chapter does not repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Whenever there is a
conflict, or overlap, between this chapter and another ordinance,
easement, covenant, or deed restriction, the instrument with the more
stringent restrictions applies.

(Prior Code, § 14.12.07) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)

§ 152.08 INTERPRETATION.

   In the interpretation, and application, of this chapter, all
provisions must:

   (A)   Be considered as minimum requirements;

   (B)   Be liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and

   (C)   Be deemed to neither limit, nor repeal, any other powers
granted under state statutes.

(Prior Code, § 14.12.08) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)

§ 152.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.

   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes. Documented scientific, and
engineering, data form the basis for these requirements. On rare
occasions, flooding events greater than those considered for this
chapter will occur. In addition, flood heights may increase over time
due to human-made, or natural, causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside special flood hazard areas will be free from flooding, nor
that strict adherence to this chapter protects uses permitted within
special flood hazard areas from all flood damages. This chapter,
specifically, does not create liability on the part of the community,
nor any official, or employee, of the community, for any flood damages
that result while strictly following this chapter, or from any lawful
administrative decision made under the provisions of this chapter.

(Prior Code, § 14.12.09) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)

§ 152.10 COMPLIANCE; NON-COMPLIANCE.

   (A)   Constructing, locating, substantially altering, or changing the
use of any structure, or land, after the effective date of this chapter
requires full compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and all
other applicable regulations.

(Prior Code, § 14.12.10)

   (B)   Flood hazards are reduced by compliance with the provisions of
this chapter. Accordingly, enforcement of this chapter discourages
non-compliance, and is a recognized mechanism for flood hazard
reduction.

   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator must enforce the provisions of
this chapter, and is authorized to:

      (1)   Issue cease, and desist, orders on non-compliant floodplain
development projects;

      (2)   Issue citations for non-compliance;

      (3)   Request that FEMA file a 1316 Action (denial of flood
insurance) against non-compliant properties; and

      (4)   Take any other lawful action necessary to prevent, or
remedy, any instance of non-compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.

(Prior Code, § 14.12.11)

(Ord. 2012-4, passed - -) Penalty, see § 152.99

§ 152.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   It is a misdemeanor to violate, or fail to comply with, any
provision of this chapter.

   (B)   Any person found, in a court of competent jurisdiction, guilty
of violating this chapter is subject to fines of not more than $500 per
day for each violation. In addition, the defendant is subject to payment
of all associated court costs, and costs involved in the case.

(Prior Code, § 14.12.11) (Ord. 2012-4, passed - -)

CHAPTER 153: WIRELESS FACILITIES; CONSTRUCTION, REGULATIONS

Section

   153.01   Purpose, scope

   153.02   Definitions

   153.03   Permitted uses; other standards

   153.04   Application, review process

   153.05   Exclusive arrangements prohibited

   153.06   Local authority

   153.07   Guidance illustrations

§ 153.01 PURPOSE, SCOPE.

   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide policies,
and procedures, for the placement of small wireless facilities, which
will provide a public benefit consistent with the preservation of the
integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city, and comply with
applicable state, and federal, laws, regulations, and guidelines.

   (B)   Intent.

      (1)   In enacting this chapter, the city is establishing uniform
standards to address issues presented by small wireless facilities,
including, without limitation:

         (a)   Health, safety, and welfare of citizens;

         (b)   Limit interference with the use of streets, sidewalks,
alleys, parkways, public utilities, public views, certain city
corridors, and other public ways and places;

         (c)   Limit the creation of visual, and physical, obstructions
and other conditions that are hazardous to vehicular, and pedestrian,
traffic;

         (d)   Limit interference with the facilities, and operations of
facilities, lawfully located in rights-of-way, or public property;

         (e)   Limit environmental damage, including damage to trees;

         (f)   Respect the character of the neighborhoods in which
facilities are installed by minimization of visual clutter, and
preservation of the character and aesthetics of areas in close proximity
to small wireless communication facilities;

         (g)   Facilitate the city’s permitting process to encourage
fair, and meaningful, competition;

         (h)   Encourage collocation of antenna on existing facilities;
and

         (i)   Facilitate deployment of small cell facilities to provide
the benefits of advanced wireless services to all citizens, and
organizations, throughout the city.

      (2)   Municipalities recognize the economic, and social, value of
data connectivity, and desire to encourage wireless infrastructure
investment by providing a fair, and predictable, process for the
deployment of small wireless facilities within the public rights-of-way
in a manner that is:

         (a)   Safe;

         (b)   Compatible with, and complementary to, the provision of
services by the municipality, and others lawfully using the
rights-of-way; and

         (c)   Consistent with the aesthetic standards of the
municipality.

   (C)   Zoning and use of rights-of-way by wireless providers.

      (1)   A wireless provider shall have the right, as a permitted
use, not subject to zoning review or approval, to collocate, maintain,
modify, operate, and replace small wireless facilities and to install,
maintain, modify, and replace poles it owns or manages, or, with the
permission of the owner, a third party’s pole, associated with a small
wireless facility, along, across, upon, and under the right-of-way.

      (2)   Small wireless facilities, and associated poles, shall be
installed, and maintained, as to not obstruct, or hinder, the usual
travel, or public safety, of the right-of-way, or the usage of the
right-of-way by utilities.

      (3)   Therefore, applications to collocate a small wireless
facility, or install, or modify, an associated utility pole in the
rights-of-way, shall be treated as a permitted use in all districts
within the city, but are not exempt from the following local regulations
and review.

      (4)   All wireless facilities not meeting the definition of a
small wireless facility shall be subject to applicable local zoning, and
development, requirements.

   (D)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all
chapters, or parts of chapters, adopted prior hereto that are in
conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.

   (E)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that
applicable federal, or state, laws or regulations conflict with the
requirements of this chapter, the wireless services provider shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter to the extent that its
provisions are not preempted by, or do not conflict with, applicable
federal, or state, laws or regulations.

(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.

   AFFILIATE. An entity that directly, or indirectly, controls, is
controlled by, or is under common control with another party.

   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits, or receives, an
electromagnetic radio frequency signal in the provision of wireless
service.

   ANTENNA EQUIPMENT. Equipment, switches, wiring, cabling, power
sources, shelters, or cabinets associated with an antenna, located at
the same fixed location as the antenna, and, when collocated on a
structure, is mounted, or installed, at the same time as the antenna.
ANTENNA EQUIPMENT does not include:

      (1)   The structure, or improvements, on, under, or within which
the equipment is collocated; or

      (2)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial, or fiber optic, cable
that is between structures, or coaxial, or fiber optic, cable that is
otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or directly associated with, an
antenna.

   ANTENNA FACILITY. An antenna, and associated antenna equipment.

   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform electrical reliability, building, fire,
electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes, as adopted by a recognized
national code organization, or local amendments to the codes that are of
general application, or local ordinances that are of general
application, that address public health, safety, or welfare, and are
consistent with this chapter.

   APPLICANT. A person who submits an application as, or on behalf of, a
wireless provider.

   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to an authority for
a permit:

      (1)   To collocate small wireless facilities; or

      (2)   To install, modify, or replace a pole on which a small
wireless facility is, or will be, collocated, in the right-of-way.

   AUTHORITY. The City of Cave Springs, Arkansas.

   AUTHORITY POLE. A pole owned, managed, or operated by, or on behalf
of, an authority.

   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATE ON. The placement, mounting, replacement, or
modification of a small wireless facility on, or of ground-mounted
antenna equipment adjacent to, a structure. COLLOCATE or COLLOCATE ON
includes collocated ground-mounted antenna equipment as a small wireless
facility if it meets the requirements of A.C. § 23-17-503(25)(A)(iii)
through (vi), and the associated facilities on the adjacent structure
meet the requirements of A.C. § 23-17-503(25)(A)(i) through(vi).

   COLLOCATION. Placing an antenna on any existing structure, regardless
of whether that structure already has wireless equipment on it, or
whether it has been zoned for placing that equipment.

   COMMUNICATION SERVICE PROVIDER.

      (1)   A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5), as it
existed on January 1, 2019;

      (2)   A provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(24), as it existed on January 1, 2019;

      (3)   A telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51); or

      (4)   A wireless provider.

   COMMUNICATION SERVICES.

      (1)   A cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as it
existed on January 1, 2019;

      (2)   A telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(53), as it existed on January 1, 2019;

      (3)   An information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24),
as it existed on January 1, 2019; or

      (4)   Wireless service.

   CONTROL. The direct, or indirect:

      (1)   Ownership of at least 50% of the equity;

      (2)   Ability to direct at least 50% of voting power; or

      (3)   Ability otherwise to direct management policies.

   CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITY. A highway or street described in A.C. §
27-68-102.

   DECORATIVE POLE. An authority pole that is specifically designed, and
placed, for aesthetic purposes, and on which limited appurtenances, or
attachments, such as a small wireless facility, lighting, specially
designed informational, or directional, signage, or temporary holiday,
or special event attachments, have been placed, or are permitted to be
placed, according to nondiscriminatory city rules or codes.

   DAY. A calendar day, unless there is a timeframe for the city to
respond to a request, and the last day to respond ends on a weekend,
holiday, or time when all but city emergency services are closed due to
weather, or some unforeseen situation.

   FACILITY. An antenna facility, or a structure, that is used for the
provision of wireless service.

   FEE. A one-time, nonrecurring charge.

   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A group of buildings, properties, or sites that
are either:

      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places, or
formally determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National
Register of Historic Places, according to § VI.D.l.a.i-v of the
Nationwide Programmatic Agreement regarding the § 106 National Historic
Preservation Act Review Process, 47 C.F.R. part 1, appendix C, as it
existed on January 1, 2019;

      (2)   A HISTORIC DISTRICT designated under the Historic Districts
Act, §§ 14-172-201 et seq.; or

      (3)   A HISTORIC DISTRICT otherwise designated under a local
ordinance as of January 1, 2019.

   MICRO-WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that:

      (1)   Is not larger in dimension than 24 inches in length, 15
inches in width, and 12 inches in height;

      (2)   Has an exterior antenna that is no longer than 11 inches;
and

      (3)   Is not placed any farther than ten feet down the span, as
measured from the side of the pole.

   PERMIT. An authorization, written or otherwise, required by an
authority to perform an action, or initiate, continue, or complete a
project for the deployment of wireless service at a specified location.

   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, association, trust, authority, or other entity or
organization.

   POLE. A pole in a right-of-way that may be used by, or for, wireline
communications, electric distribution, lighting, traffic control,
signage, or a similar function, or for collocation of small wireless
facilities. POLE does not include a wireless support structure, or an
electric transmission structure.

   RATE. A recurring charge.

   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area on, below, or above a public utility easement,
roadway, highway, street, sidewalk, alley, or similar property. Such
areas are formally owned by the city, or used as prescriptive easements.
RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include a federal interstate highway,
controlled-access facility, or a public utility easement that does not
authorize the deployment sought by the wireless provider.

   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.

      (1)   A wireless facility that meets all of the following
specifications:

         (a)   The facility:

            1.   Is mounted on a structure 50 feet, or less, in height,
including the antennas;

            2.   Is mounted on a structure no more than 10% taller than
other adjacent structures; or

            3.   Does not extend an existing structure on which it is
located to a height of more than 50 feet, or by more than 10%, whichever
is greater.

         (b)   Each antenna associated with the deployment, excluding
associated antenna equipment, is no more than three cubic feet in
volume;

         (c)   All other wireless equipment associated with the
structure, including the wireless equipment associated with the antenna,
and any preexisting associated equipment on the structure, is no more
than 28 cubic feet in volume;

         (d)   The facility does not require antenna structure
registration under 47 C.F.R. part 17, as it existed on January 1, 2019;

         (e)   The facility is not located on tribal lands, as defined
in 36 C.F.R. § 800.16(x), as it existed on January 1, 2019; and

         (f)   The facility does not result in human exposure to radio
frequency in excess of the applicable safety standards, specified in 47
C.F.R. § 1.1307(b), as it existed on January 1, 2019.

      (2)   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:

         (a)   The structure, or improvements on, under, or within which
the equipment is located, or collocated, or to which the equipment is
attached; and

         (b)   Any wireline backhaul facility, or coaxial or fiber optic
cable, that is between wireless support structures, or utility poles, or
that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or directly associated
with, a particular antenna.

   STRUCTURE. A pole, or wireless support structure, whether or not it
has an existing antenna facility, that is used, or to be used, for the
provision of wireless service.

   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. By virtue of engineering, or spectrum usage,
the proposed placement for a small wireless facility, or its design,
concealment measures, or site location, can be implemented without a
material reduction in the functionality of the small wireless facility.

   UTILITY POLE. A pole, or similar structure, that is used in whole, or
in part, for the purpose of carrying electric distribution lines or
cables, or wires, for telecommunications, cable, or electric service, or
for lighting, traffic control signage, or a similar function regardless
of ownership. Such term shall not include structures supporting only
wireless facilities.

   WIRELESS FACILITY.

      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communication network,
including:

         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and

         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial, or fiber optic,
cable, regular, and backup, power supplies, and comparable equipment,
regardless of technological configuration.

      (2)   The term includes SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES. The term does
not include the structure, or improvements, on, under, or within which
the equipment is collocated, wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial, or
fiber optic, cable that is between wireless support structures or
utility poles, or coaxial, or fiber optic, cable that is otherwise not
immediately adjacent to, or directly associated with, an antenna.

   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. A person, or an affiliate thereof,
including a person authorized to provide communications service in the
state, that builds, or installs, facilities for the provision of
wireless service, but that is not a wireless service provider.

   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider, or a wireless
service provider.

   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed, or unlicensed,
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or
mobile, provided to the public.

   WIRELESS SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless service.

   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure, including:

      (1)   A monopole;

      (2)   A tower, either guyed or self-supporting;

      (3)   A billboard;

      (4)   A building; or

      (5)   Any other existing, or proposed, structure designed to
support, or that is capable of supporting, small wireless facilities,
other than a structure designed solely for the collocation of small
wireless facilities.

   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Does not include a pole.

   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. An aboveground, or underground, facility
used to transport communications services from a wireless facility to a
network.

(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 153.03 PERMITTED USES; OTHER STANDARDS.

   (A)   Location. While small cell facilities are permitted uses within
all zoning districts within the city, deployment of small cell
facilities within the city is subject to the standards set forth in this
chapter.

   (B)   Height.

      (1)   Each new, or modified, pole installed in the right-of-way
for the purpose of collocation of small wireless facilities shall not
exceed the greater of:

         (a)   Fifty feet in height above ground level; or

         (b)   Ten percent taller than the tallest existing pole in
place in the same right-of-way as of September 1, 2019, within 300 feet
of the new, or modified, pole.

      (2)   A new small wireless facility in the right-of-way shall not
extend more than 10% above the existing structure on which it is
located, or 50 feet above ground level, whichever is greater.

      (3)   A wireless provider shall have the right to collocate a
wireless facility and install, maintain, modify, and replace a pole that
exceeds the height limits required under division (B)(1) above along,
across, upon, and under the right-of-way, subject to this section, and
any applicable zoning regulations.

   (C)   Location and design.

      (1)   A wireless provider shall not install a small wireless
facility, or pole, in a historic district without complying with the
requirements of general application for structures within the historic
district.

      (2)   A wireless provider may replace decorative poles when
necessary to deploy a small wireless facility, so long as the
replacement reasonably conforms to the design of the original decorative
pole.

   (D)   Damage and repair; replacements, abandonment, removal.

      (1)   (a)   A wireless provider shall repair all damage to the
right-of-way directly caused by the activities of the wireless provider
in the right-of-way, and return the right-of-way to its functional, and
aesthetic, equivalence before the damage under the competitively
neutral, reasonable requirements, and specifications, of the city.

         (b)   If the wireless provider fails to make the repairs
required by the city within a reasonable time after written notice, the
city may make those repairs, and charge the applicable party the actual,
and reasonable, documented cost, including overhead, of the repairs.

      (2)   (a)   A wireless provider is not required to replace, or
upgrade, an existing pole, except for reasons of structural necessity,
or compliance with applicable codes.

         (b)   A wireless provider may, with the permission of the pole
owner, replace, or modify, existing poles, but any such replacement, or
modification, shall substantially conform to the design aesthetics of
the pole being modified, or replaced.

      (3)   (a)   A wireless provider shall notify the city at least 30
days before the wireless provider’s abandonment of a small wireless
facility.

         (b)   If the wireless provider fails to remove the abandoned
small wireless facility within 90 days after the notice, the city may
undertake the removal, and recover the actual, and reasonable,
documented cost, including overhead, of the removal from the wireless
provider, or its successors or assigns.

      (4)   (a)   The city may order the removal of a small wireless
facility, or associated pole, in the right-of-way that violates A.C. §§
23-17-505, 23-17-506, or applicable codes.

         (b)   The city shall provide written notice of the violation to
the owner of the small wireless facility at least 30 days before removal
to afford the owner the opportunity to conduct repairs or removal, or
otherwise remedy the violation.

      (5)   (a)   If the city determines that a wireless provider’s
activity in a right-of-way under this section creates an imminent risk
to public safety, the city may provide written notice to the wireless
provider, and demand that the wireless provider address the risk.

         (b)   If the wireless provider fails to reasonably address the
risk within 24 hours of the written notice, the city may take, or cause
to be taken, action to reasonably address the risk, and charge the
wireless provider the reasonable documented cost of the actions.

      (6)   A wireless provider shall not collocate a small wireless
facility, or install, modify, or replace a pole in the right-of-way
that:

         (a)   Materially interferes with the safe operation of traffic
control equipment;

         (b)   Materially interferes with sight lines or clear zones for
transportation, or pedestrians;

         (c)   Materially interferes with compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., or
similar federal, or state, standards regarding pedestrian access, or
movement; or

         (d)   Fails to comply with applicable codes.

   (E)   Collocation.

      (1)   This section applies to activities of a wireless provider
collocating small wireless facilities on authority poles in the city’s
right-of-way, or in a right-of-way controlled by the State Department of
Transportation located within the city.

      (2)   (a)   A person owning, managing, or controlling poles in the
city, or state right-of-way, shall not enter into an exclusive
arrangement with any person for the right to attach to the poles.

         (b)   A person who purchases, or otherwise acquires, a pole in
the city, or state right-of-way, is subject to the requirements of this
section.

      (3)   The city shall allow the collocation of small wireless
facilities on authority poles on nondiscriminatory terms, and
conditions, using the process in § 153.04(A).

      (4)   The rates to collocate on authority poles is provided in §
153.04(F)(13).

      (5)   (a)   As part of an application to collocate a small
wireless facility on an authority pole, the wireless provider shall
submit make-ready design drawings, and work descriptions, that enable
the pole to support the requested collocation by the wireless provider,
including pole replacement, if necessary.

         (b)   The city may amend the make-ready design drawings, and
work to comply with applicable codes before the issuance of a permit to
the extent reasonably necessary.

         (c)   The rates, fees, and terms and conditions for the
make-ready work to collocate on an authority pole shall be
nondiscriminatory, competitively neutral, and commercially reasonable,
and shall comply with this chapter.

         (d)   The city shall not require more make-ready work than
required to meet applicable codes or industry standards, nor may the
fees for make-ready work include costs related to preexisting, or prior,
damage or non-compliance.

      (6)   (a)   The city may require replacement of an authority pole
only if the collocation would make the authority pole structurally
unsound.

         (b)   The city may require that the replaced authority pole
have the same functionality as the pole being replaced.

         (c)   If the authority pole is replaced, the city shall take
ownership of the new pole, and operate authority fixtures on the pole.

      (7)   (a)   Make-ready fees charged by the city may include the
amount the authority pays a professional engineer registered in the
state to review the wireless provider’s make-ready work plans.

         (b)   Fees for make-ready work shall not include any revenue,
or contingency-based consultant’s fees, or expenses of any kind.

      (8)   Within 60 days of the receipt of the application filed to
collocate on a city pole, the city shall elect to:

         (a)   Perform the make-ready work necessary to enable the pole
to support the requested collocation by a wireless provider, and provide
a good-faith estimate for the work, including pole replacement, if
necessary; or

         (b)   Authorize the wireless provider to perform the make-ready
work.

      (9)   (a)   The city shall complete make-ready work it elects to
perform, including any pole replacement, within 60 days of written
acceptance of the good faith estimate of the applicant.

         (b)   If the city, electing to perform the make-ready work, has
not completed the work within 60 days after the written acceptance, and
deposit of the good faith estimate by the applicant, the applicant may
demand a return of any deposited funds, and proceed with the make-ready
work as described in division (E)(5) above, using authorized, qualified
contractors approved by the city with the authorization not to be
unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed.

      (10)   The city, or other applicable authority, may reserve space
on an authority pole for future public safety, or transportation, uses
in a documented, and approved, plan in place at the time an application
is filed.

         (a)   A reservation of space shall not preclude placement of a
pole, or collocation of a small wireless facility.

         (b)   If replacement of the city’s pole is necessary to
accommodate the collocation of the small wireless facility and the
future use, the wireless provider shall pay for the replacement of the
authority pole, and the replaced pole shall accommodate future use.

   (F)   Aesthetics.

      (1)   The aesthetic appearance of small wireless facilities, and
associated poles, is regulated by the city to ensure coordinated,
adjusted, and harmonious development, as provided in this section. The
city may apply these requirements to areas of the city in which
coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development has been established
through the use of overlay districts, or historical districts, which
have been in existence at least 90 days prior to the passage of this
chapter.

      (2)   These aesthetic standards shall adhere to the following
requirements:

         (a)   Reasonable, in that they are technically feasible and
reasonably directed to avoiding, or remedying, unsightly, or
out-of-character, deployments;

         (b)    No more burdensome than those applied to other types of
utility and communications infrastructure deployments;

         (c)   Objective, and published, at least 90 days in advance of
the filing of an application under this chapter;

         (d)   Any design, or concealment, measures are not considered a
part of the small wireless facility for purposes of the size parameters
in the definition of small wireless facility; and

         (e)   The city may deny an application for not complying with
aesthetic requirements only if the city finds that the denial does not
prohibit, or have the effect of prohibiting, the provision of wireless
service.

      (3)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may:

         (a)   Hear appeals of the decision of the Administrative
Officer in respect to the enforcement, and application, of the aesthetic
standards, and may affirm, or reverse, in whole or in part, the decision
of the Administrative Officer;

            1.   Decisions of the Administrative Officer shall be
rendered to the applicant in writing; and

            2.   An appeal must be filed within ten days of the written
decision of the Administrative Officer.

         (b)   Hear requests for variances from the literal provisions
of the aesthetic standards, and grant the variances only when it is
necessary to avoid the prohibition of wireless service, or otherwise
comply with the law.

      (4)   Decisions of the Board, in respect to this section, shall be
subject to appeal only to a court of record having jurisdiction.

      (5)   Equipment enclosures standards shall be:

         (a)   To the extent technically feasible, if the support
structure is a pole, all radios and wireless communication equipment,
except the antenna, shall be enclosed within an equipment cabinet, and
housed at the base of the support structure, pole mounted (at a height,
and placement, that will not interfere with pedestrian, cyclist, or
vehicular movements), or below grade; and

         (b)   Where underground utilities are required by the
provisions of this chapter, or other city adopted regulations or codes,
ancillary equipment related to the small wireless facility shall be
placed in an underground vault to the greatest extent possible.

      (6)   Design shall be consistent with the provisions of this
section. A small wireless facility shall be installed using the
following design approaches to the extent reasonable, including, without
limitation, the following:

         (a)   For location on newly proposed wireless support
structures, the following options are available:

            1.   New poles installed to support small wireless
facilities shall be made of the same, or similar, material as existing
poles in the immediate area;

            2.   In an area where other above ground utilities are
present, the deployment of a new small cell facility shall be located on
the same side of the street which the existing above ground utilities
are located, and a similar style utility pole (as those utilized by
existing above ground utilities) may be utilized;

            3.   In an area where the city has required all electrical,
and communication, lines to be placed underground by a date certain that
is three months before the submission of the application, or where
undergrounding is required after small wireless facilities have been
installed, an explanation as to why collocation, or use, of an existing
structure, remaining pole, or replacement pole is not technically
feasible shall be required. This shall apply to the location of all pole
attached utilities, and shall include demonstration of a reasonable
attempt to collocate, or utilize, an existing structure. A wireless
provider may install a new pole in the designated area that otherwise
complies with this section when it is not able to provide wireless
service by collocating on an existing structure, remaining pole, or
replacement pole;

            4.   When a wireless provider applies to install a new pole
in the right-of-way in an area zoned for residential use, the city may
propose an alternative location in the right-of-way within 100 feet of
the location stated in the application, and the wireless provider shall
use the city’s proposed alternative location, unless the location
imposes technical limits, or significant additional costs. The wireless
provider shall certify that it has made the determination in good faith,
based on the assessment of a licensed engineer, and the wireless
provider shall provide a written summary of the basis for the
determination; and

            5.   The city may require wireless providers to comply with
reasonable, and nondiscriminatory, horizontal spacing requirements of
general application for new poles and ground-mounted small wireless
facilities, but the requirements shall not prevent a wireless provider
from serving any location.

         (b)   For location on existing pole structures:

            1.   Stealth antennas and mounts (completely encased, or
screened, antennas, when possible, to approximately match the color of
the existing poles). In the event that some antennas cannot be covered
due to their operational wavelength, the applicant shall provide proof
of such to the city, and the antenna shall be required to be painted in
a way that blends with the pole;

            2.   Stealth base cabinet enclosures (completely encases
base cabinet equipment to match the colors of the existing poles to the
extent feasible). Base cabinet may be placed in any location on the
lower portion of the pole, but may not impede ADA accessibility of a
sidewalk. The base cabinet may also be placed underground; and

            3.   The city shall not limit the collocation of small
wireless facilities by minimum horizontal separation distance
requirements from existing small wireless facilities, poles, or wireless
support structures.

         (c)   For location on existing building structures:

            1.   New steeple, extension to existing steeple, and
replacement steeple concealment structures;

            2.   Chimney concealment structures;

            3.   Chimney pot concealment structures;

            4.   Rooftop facade extension concealment;

            5.   Rooftop cupola concealment;

            6.   Rooftop screen concealment;

            7.   Rooftop pod concealment systems;

            8.   Building side grid concealment structures;

            9.   Building side screen concealment structures; and

            10.   Rooftop, or wall mounted, lantern concealment
structures.

         (d)   Antenna arrays, cables, and other ancillary facilities
used for providing the wireless service shall not be obtrusive, or
noticeably visible from adjacent properties, or adjacent rights-of-way;

         (e)   The color of the facility shall be compatible with that
of the non-tower support structure. To the extent any small wireless
facilities extend above the height of the vegetation buildings and
utilities immediately surrounding it, they shall be painted in a
non-reflective light gray, light blue, or other hue, which blends with
the skyline and horizon;

         (f)   Attachments, which are ancillary to the antenna arrays
mounted onto a non-tower support structure, shall not project greater
than three feet, as measured horizontally, from the surface of the
non-tower support structure, and shall be painted, or screened, with
materials that are a compatible color to the non-tower support
structure. Cables that travel along the exterior of a non-tower support
structure shall be closely connected to the structure, creating a
minimal appearance of gaps, or loose wires. When possible, visible
cables should be in conduit, or otherwise covered, in a material
visually compatible in color to the support structure;

         (g)   The general design of a small wireless facility shall be
compatible to the streetscape and aesthetics of the surrounding area
with respect to street furniture and lights, building facade designs,
and area character;

         (h)   Other design elements which, by industry standards, are
considered stealth technology deployment may also be used; and

         (i)   Within enacted overlay district stealth concealment is
required except when specifically identified by the applicant that such
stealth concealment results in a material reduction in the functionality
of the proposed small wireless facility.

   (H)   Signage. The applicable provisions of the city municipal code
regarding signage shall apply to all small wireless facilities.

   (I)   Illumination. A small wireless facility shall not have lights
on the facility, unless the lights are required by other laws, and
consistent with the requirements of law, or designed as an intended
amenity of the support structure.

   (J)   Fencing. A small wireless facility installed in the public
right-of-way shall not be fenced.

   (K)   Use of right-of-wav and indemnification.

      (1)   The wireless provider shall fully indemnify, and hold
harmless, the city and its officers, agents, and employees against any
claims, demands, damages, lawsuits, judgments, costs, liens, losses,
expenses, and attorney’s fees resulting from the installation,
construction, repair, replacement, operation, or maintenance of poles,
small wireless facilities, or attachments to city poles to the extent
directly caused by the negligence of the wireless provider, its
contractors, subcontractors, and their officers, employees, or agents.

      (2)   A permit from the city shall not create a property right, or
grant any authority to the owner of the small wireless facility to
impinge upon the rights of others who may already have an interest in
the right-of-way.

   (L)   Guidance illustrations. Attached to this chapter, as a guidance
to this section, are illustrations to provide guidance to applicants of
aesthetic standards encouraged, and preferred, by the city in the
installation of small wireless facilities, and associated poles. (See §
153.07).

(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 153.04 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS.

   (A)   Permit and application. A permit is required for the placement,
and construction, of a small wireless facility. Approval of a permit
shall require an application.

   (B)   Contents of application. The small wireless facility permit
application shall be made by the wireless services provider, or an
authorized agent. A permit application shall contain the following:

      (1)   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number, and email
address;

      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses
of all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with
respect to the filing of the application;

      (3)   A general description of the proposed work. The scope, and
detail, of such description shall be appropriate to the nature, and
character, of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those
matters, including, but not limited to, sub-surface utilities, likely to
be affected, or impacted, by the work proposed;

      (4)   Authorization for any consultant acting on behalf of the
applicant to speak with the city, or a designee of the city;

      (5)   Verification from an appropriate professional that the small
wireless facility shall comply with all applicable codes;

      (6)   Drawings, and descriptions, of the proposed facilities,
non-tower support structures, and ancillary equipment;

      (7)   Maps with the specific locations;

      (8)   Geographic coordinates of the locations;

      (9)   If the proposed location is a new pole, an explanation as to
why collocation, or use, of an existing structure is not technically
feasible. This shall apply to the location of all pole attached
utilities, and shall include demonstration of a reasonable attempt to
collocate, or use, an existing structure, remaining pole, or replacement
pole;

      (10)   If the applicant proposes to collocate on, or occupy any,
existing structure not owned by the applicant, a letter, or written
statement, from the owner allowing the use; and

      (11)   A description and substantiation of any requests for
exceptions from the requirements of this section.

   (C)   Batch applications. The city may require the applicant to file
a separate application for any small wireless facility that is not of a
substantially similar design to the others included in the application,
or if submitted in a batch, the application must be sufficiently clear
so that the city may determine whether one, or more, of the proposed
facilities is not of a substantially similar design.

   (D)   Bond. The city may require the applicant to post a bond as
required for any open cut, sidewalk, curb and gutter, or other public
right-of-way work, as set forth in §§ 151.01 through 151.05.

   (E)   Routine maintenance and replacement.

      (1)   An application shall not be required for:

         (a)   Routine maintenance that does not expand the size, or
height, of the small wireless facility; and

         (b)   The replacement of a small wireless facility with another
small wireless facility that is substantially similar, or smaller, in
size, weight, and height.

      (2)   Provided, however, on a location where the city, or another
provider, has placed equipment, or facilities, any routine maintenance,
or replacement, that is done shall not occur until written notice of an
intent to proceed is provided to the city.

   (F)   Review procedure. The Administrative Official shall review the
application for compliance with these, and other, applicable laws and
regulations. Review, and approval, shall be in accordance with
timeframes established by federal, and state, law/policy, and the
following:

      (1)   All applications shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory
basis within:

         (a)   Sixty days of receipt of an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility; and

         (b)   Ninety days for an application to install, modify, or
replace a pole on which a small wireless facility is, or will be,
collocated.

      (2)   Within ten days of receiving an application, the
Administrative Official shall determine, and notify, the applicant in
writing:

         (a)   Whether the application is complete; or

         (b)   If the application is incomplete, what specific
information is missing.

      (3)   If the application is incomplete, the applicant shall be
allowed to resubmit the amended application without penalty, or payment,
of any additional application fees, if resubmission occurs within 30
days of notification;

      (4)   The timeframe for reviewing shall commence when the
application is submitted, but may be tolled upon notification of
incompleteness. If the application is incomplete, the applicable
timeframe for reviewing is reset when the missing information is
provided by the applicant;

      (5)   Once the application is determined to be complete, the
Administrative Official shall review the application, and if the
application meets the requirements, and standards, set forth in this
section, the application shall be granted, and a permit issued;

      (6)   If the applicant is requesting an exception to any
requirement, the standard of review shall be to determine if the
exception is warranted due to an identifiable site-specific hardship, or
a technological challenge, and more specifically, if the excepted
requirement is:

         (a)   Not necessary, or desirable, for the protection of the
surrounding property, public health, public safety, or general welfare;
or

         (b)   Unreasonable, as applied to the particular application.

      (7)   The Administrative Official may approve some, or all, of the
requested exception, and advise the applicant, in writing, of the extent
of approval, and/or reasons for denial. At his or her discretion, the
Administrative Official may also submit the application to the
Development Review Committee for input, or comment.

         (a)   If the applicant believes the decision of the
Administrative Official to be in error, an appeal may be made to the
City Board of Zoning Adjustments.

         (b)   If the applicant accepts the decision of the
Administrative Official, the application shall proceed with review, and
approval or denial.

      (8)   The Administrative Official shall have the authority to
defer an exception request to the Board of Zoning Adjustment. The Board
of Zoning Adjustment shall act upon the request in a timely manner. If
the decision of the Board of Zoning Adjustment is in the affirmative,
the permit shall be approved; provided, all other review requirements
are met. If not, the application shall be referred to the Administrative
Official for continued review;

      (9)   If the Board of Zoning Adjustment denies any, or all, of the
requested exception, the applicant may appeal the decision to a court of
jurisdiction, in accordance with state law;

      (10)   The Administrative Official, or designee, shall notify the
applicant, in writing, of its final decision:

         (a)   Within 60 days of receiving an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility using an existing structure;

         (b)   Within 90 days for an application to collocate a small
wireless facility on a new structure. These timelines may be tolled only
by mutual agreement between the applicant and the city;

         (c)   If the application is approved, a permit shall be issued;

         (d)   If the application is denied, the Administrative Official
shall specify, in writing, the basis for denial, citing specific code
provisions from federal, state, or local law as to why the application
was denied;

         (e)   Notwithstanding the initial denial, the applicant may
cure any deficiencies identified by the Administrative Official within
30 days of the denial without paying an additional application fee. The
Administrative Official shall approve, or deny, the revised application
within 30 days of receipt of the amended application, and its review
shall be limited to the deficiencies specified in the original notice of
denial; and

         (f)   If a decision on an application is not made within the
applicable timeframe, the application shall be deemed approved ten days
after written notice is provided by the applicant to the city that the
time period for acting on the application has lapsed.

      (11)   (a)   If after commencement of construction, but before
construction is complete for an approved permit, circumstances
unforeseen at the time of approval arise which make continued
construction unsafe, or impracticable, the applicant may request an
amendment to the application, or plan, by filing a request to amend the
approved application.

         (b)   The applicant shall cease work, and the procedure for the
amendment request shall proceed in the same manner as if it were a new
application under this section. There is no application fee for an
amendment request;

      (12)   Prohibitions, and work requirements, are as follows:

         (a)   Within 60 days of written notice, the owner of the small
wireless facility shall:

            1.   Remove all graffiti on the facility at his or her
expense; and

            2.   Repair, or replace, any damaged equipment.

         (b)   Facilities located in the public right-of-way shall not
materially, or visually, obstruct traffic signals, or signage, and shall
be maintained in a manner that does not materially interfere with public
safety equipment;

         (c)   The owner shall employ due care during the installation,
maintenance, or any other work in the ROW, and shall comply with all
safety and public ROW protection requirements of all applicable local,
state, and federal laws. The owner shall restore, repair, and/or replace
any portion of the public improvements in the ROW that are damaged, or
disturbed, by the owner’s work, or small wireless facilities;

         (d)   Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the owner shall
erect a barrier around the perimeter of any excavation, and provide
appropriate traffic control devices, signs, and lights to protect, warn,
and guide the public (vehicular and pedestrian) through the work zone.
The manner, and use, of these devices shall be described within a
traffic control plan in accordance with the Uniform Manual of Traffic
Control Devices. The owner shall maintain all barriers, and other
traffic control, and safety, devices related to an open excavation until
the excavation is restored to a safe condition, or as otherwise directed
by the city;

         (e)   If use of the right-of-way on which the small wireless
facility is located is necessary for a construction, or improvement,
project undertaken by the city, or on its behalf, the small wireless
facility shall be relocated. Notice of such relocation shall be provided
by the city as soon practicable, and at least 90 days before the
deadline for completing the relocation. The city shall not bear any
expense of any necessary relocation;

         (f)   A small wireless facility shall not interfere with city,
and public safety, communication systems, and shall comply with all FCC
regulations governing interference;

         (g)   A guy wire, or other support wire, shall not be used in
connection with an antenna, antenna array, or a non-tower support
structure, except when used to anchor the antenna, antenna array, or
non-tower support structure to an existing building, or ground, to which
such antenna, antenna array, or non-tower support structure is attached;
and

         (h)   The owner of a small wireless facility that is not in
service, or use, for more than six months shall disassemble, and remove,
the facility.

      (13)   The fees and rates are as follows:

         (a)   For the co-location of a small wireless facility on an
existing pole or structure, a $100 non-recurring application fee.

            1.   Additionally, except as described in A.C. §
23-17-510(e), a wireless provider shall pay the city compensation for
use of the right-of-way an annual rate of $30 per small wireless
facility. The annual rate shall be paid to the city by January 31 of the
following year.

            2.   A wireless provider shall pay the city compensation for
collocation of small wireless facilities on city poles an annual rate of
$240 for each city pole.

         (b)   For the installation of a small wireless facility and a
pole, $250 for the installation, modification, or replacement of a pole,
together with the collocation of an associated small wireless facility
in the right-of-way.

            1.   Additionally, except as described in A.C. §
23-17-510(e), a wireless provider shall pay the city compensation for
use of the right-of-way, an annual rate of $30 per small wireless
facility.

            2.   The annual rate shall be paid to the city by January 31
of the following year.

         (c)   If the application is for multiple facilities, the fee is
$100 (non-recurring application fee) for each additional facility.

   (G)   Exceptions. A wireless provider is not required to pay an
authority compensation for micro-wireless facilities that are suspended
on cables strung between existing utility poles in the right-of-way, as
long as the wireless provider compensates the authority through other
licenses, or franchises, held directly, or through one of the wireless
provider’s affiliates, for the placement of the suspension cables in the
right-of-way.

(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 153.05 EXCLUSIVE ARRANGEMENTS PROHIBITED.

   The city shall not enter into an exclusive arrangement with a person
for use of the right-of-way for the collocation of small wireless
facilities, or the installation, operation, marketing, modification,
maintenance, or replacement of poles for the collocation.

(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 153.06 LOCAL AUTHORITY.

   (A)   Exercise of Zoning Authority. Subject to the provisions of the
Small Wireless Facility Deployment Act, codified at A.C. §§ 23-17-501 et
seq., and applicable federal law, the city may continue to exercise
zoning, land use, planning, and permitting authority within its
territorial boundaries with respect to wireless support structures,
including the enforcement of applicable codes.

   (B)   Interior installations. The city shall not have, or exercise,
any jurisdiction, or authority, over the design, engineering,
construction, installation, or operation of a small wireless facility
located in an interior structure, or upon the site of a campus, stadium,
or athletic facility not owned, or controlled, by the city, other than
to require compliance with applicable codes.

(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)

§ 153.07 GUIDANCE ILLUSTRATIONS.

   (A)   Examples of stealth building attachments:

   (B)   Examples of stealth pole attachments for small wireless
facilities:

(Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-26-2019)

CHAPTER 154: ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS

Section

   154.01   Zoning regulations adopted by reference

   154.02   Subdivision regulations adopted by reference

§ 154.01 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.

   The city’s land use provisions, and any, and all, amendments, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in
full.

(Prior Code, Chapter 14.04) (Ord. 2019-10, passed 5-28-2019; Ord.
2020-02, passed 1-27-2020; Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-27-2020; Ord. 2020-07,
passed 1-27-2020; Ord. 2020-13, passed 4-27-2020; Ord. 2021- 14, passed
5-24-2021; Ord. 2021-18, passed 6-28-2021; 2021-28, passed 8-23-2021;
Ord. 2022-14, passed 5-24-2022; Ord. 2023-04, passed 3-14-2023)

§ 154.02 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.

   The city’s subdivision regulations, and any, and all, amendments, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in
full.

(Prior Code, Chapter 15.04) (Ord. 2021-27, passed 8-23-2021)

TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES

   Table

      I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS

      II.   LAND VACATIONS

      III.   ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS

      IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES

      V.   IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS

      VI.   LEASE AGREEMENTS; PURCHASES

TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS

  ---------- ------------- -------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description
  ---------- ------------- -------------

  ---------- ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description

  99         - -           Telephone franchise with Contel Telephone Company; 30-year contract.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 4.12)

  2013-1     - -           Telecommunications franchise with AT&T.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 4.24)

  2013-2     - -           Telecommunication franchise with Centurylink.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 4.28)

  98         2-4-1991      Gas franchise with Arkansas Western Gas Company.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 4.04; Chapter 4.16)

  100        3-4-1991      Electric franchise fees set with Carroll Electric Cooperative Corporation.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 4.08)

  2019-06    3-25-2019     Accepting the final plat of phase one of the Allen’s Mill Subdivision on behalf of Buff Cave, LLC; agreeing all public facility improvements constructed as part of the subdivision are subject to city maintenance, upkeep, and care.

  2021-09    4-26-2021     Waiving competitive bidding in order to accept a bid from Myrick Construction, Inc. for the construction of two public works structures.

  2021-11    4-26-2021     Waiving competitive bidding in order to accept a bid from Five Star Paving, Inc. for the cleaning, repair, and sealing of certain streets.

  2021-12    4-26-2021     Waiving competitive bidding in order to accept a bid from Hutchens Construction for a street overlay project.

  2021-31    8-23-2021     Waiving competitive bidding in order to accept a bid from Hutchens Construction for asphalt removal and replacement in various areas.

                           
  ---------- ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

TABLE II: LAND VACATIONS

  ---------- ------------- -------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description
  ---------- ------------- -------------

  ---------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description

  70         - -           Alley between Lots 15 and 18 of Johnson’s addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  71         - -           Alley in Block 2 of Allen’s addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  77         - -           Part of Alton Street in northwest corner of Lot 2 in Bartlett’s revised addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  82         - -           Alley in Block 23 of Bartlett’s revised addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  86         - -           Part of Benton Avenue, between Blocks 20 and 23 in Bartlett’s revised addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  88         - -           Alley in Block 2 of Johnson’s second addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  96-9       - -           Alley from Midway Avenue to railroad in Block 6 of Bartlett’s addition; Chico Street in Block 6 of Bartlett’s addition; alley from Midway Avenue between Lots 2 through 6 in Bartlett’s addition; and alley in Lots 4 and 5 in Bartlett’s addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  97-5       - -           Alley on east side of Lot 1 in Block 4 of Johnson’s addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  99-7       - -           Alton Street east of Block 24 between Johnson Avenue and Bartlett’s addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  105        - -           Unnamed street north of Block 7 of Bartlett’s revised addition; Washington Street abutting Block 7 of Bartlett’s revised addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  108        - -           Wilson Avenue in Block 3 of Johnson’s addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  109        - -           Alley in Block 3 of Johnson’s addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  2003-17    - -           Unnamed street between Sections 2 through 23 of Block 2 of Johnson’s second addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  2004-9     - -           Unnamed street between Lots 2 through 23 in Block 20 of Johnson’s second addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  2005-16    - -           Adele Street in western edge of Block 20 in Bartlett’s revised addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  2005-27    - -           Alley running east and west in Blocks 7 and 8 of Johnson’s addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  2006-24    - -           Alley in Lots 4 through 18 in Block 4 of Johnson’s addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  2007-10    - -           Part of Stroud Avenue in Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, Chapter 8.32)

  2017-35    9-12-2017     Kyle and Judy Castor; a 20-foot platted alley in Block 7, south of East Lowell Avenue (AR Highway 264), and north of Wilson Avenue, Johnson’s addition.

  2017-47    12-12-2017    Part of the unopened street (Lots 11 through 15 in Block 6, and Lots 1 through 4 of Block 7), and unopened alley (Lots 11 through 15), located on Midway Avenue.

  2021-06    3-22-2021     A portion of Second Street and an alley located between and around Lots 1 through 6 and the north half of Lots 7 and 8 of Block 1 of Johnson’s addition.

  2021-29    8-23-2021     A portion of Second Street and a portion of an alley located between Second Street and Third Street of Johnson’s addition.

                           
  ---------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS

  ---------- ------------- -------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description
  ---------- ------------- -------------

  ---------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description

  92         - -           Part of Section 1, Township 1, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  95-6       - -           Submitted to electors to vote.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  96-5       - -           West half of Section 36, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  98-3       - -           Southwest quarter of Section 29, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  99-13      - -           Part of the west quarter of Section 18, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  2001-8     - -           Northwest quarter of Section 13, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  2002-9     - -           Final plat of St. Valery Downs subdivision.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  2004-12    - -           Southwest corner of Section 17, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  2004-19    - -           Southwest quarter of Section 5, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  2005-12    - -           Part of the southeast quarter of Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  2008-6     - -           Northwest quarter of Section 32, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  2011-2     - -           South half of Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  2011-4     - -           Part of northwest quarter of Section 8, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  2011-5     - -           Northeast quarter of Section 2, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, §14.16.01)

  2021-35    - -           Detachment of certain territory from the City of Springdale, and annexation to the City of Cave Springs.

  2017-08    2-14-2017     Approving ordinance 2017-12 from the City of Rogers; detachment of certain property from the City of Cave Springs, and annexation to the City of Rogers.

  2017-45    11-14-2017    Annexation of certain territory to the city west from Highway 112.

  2017-46    11-14-2017    Annexation of certain territory to the city east from Highway 112.

  2017-48    12-12-2017    Assigning certain annexed territory from ordinance 2017-45 as Ward 1 (west from Highway 112).

  2018-10    5-8-2018      Sewell Development, LLC; simultaneous detachment and annexation into the City of Bentonville.

  2018-19    10-9-2018     Approving ordinance 2018-55 from the City of Rogers; detachment of certain property from the City of Cave Springs, and annexation to the City of Rogers.

  2020-11    3-23-2020     Approving ordinance 5448 of the City of Springdale; detachment of certain property from the City of Cave Springs, and annexation to the City of Springdale.

  2021-05    4-26-2021     Annexation of certain territory in Sections No. 25, 26, 35, and 36 of in Township 19 North, Range 31 West, and Sections No. 2, 3, 10, 11, 14, and 15 of Township 18 North, Range 31 West.

  2021-34    9-27-2021     Approving Ord. 2021- 115 from the City of Bentonville; detachment of certain property from the City of Cave Springs, and annexation to the City of Bentonville.

                           
  ---------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES

  ---------- ------------- -------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description
  ---------- ------------- -------------

  ---------- ------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description

  94         - -           From A to R; part of the northeast quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  99-4       - -           From A-1 to R-MH; part of the southeast quarter of Section 31, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  99-5       - -           From A-1 to R-MH; part of the northeast quarter of Section 36, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  99-8       - -           From A-1 to R-MH; part of the northeast quarter of Section 12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  99-10      - -           From A-1 to R-MH; part of the east half of Section 12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2004-8     - -           From A-1 to R-2; the south half of Section 13, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2004-14    - -           From A-1 to R-2; part of the northeast quarter of Section 12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2004-20    - -           From A-1 to R-2; part of the northwest quarter of Section 19, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2004-21    - -           From A-1 to R-2; part of the southwest quarter of Section 5, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2005-4     - -           From A-1 to R-2; the southwest quarter of Section 31, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2005-5     - -           From R-2 to C-2; part of the north half of Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2005-6     - -           From A-1 to C-2; part of the northwest quarter of Section 33, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2005-13    - -           From A-1 to R-2; part of the northeast quarter of Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2005-18    - -           From A-1 to R-1; part of the southeast quarter of Section 24, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2005-19    - -           From A-1 to C-2; part of the southwest quarter of Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2005-20    - -           From A-1 to C-2; part of the southeast quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2005-22    - -           From A-1 to C-2; the north half of Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2005-23    - -           From A-1 to C-2; the north half of Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2005-24    - -           From A-1 to R-2; part of the southwest quarter of Section 31, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2006-4     - -           From A-1 to R-2; part of the north half of Section 5, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2006-5     - -           From A-1 to C-2; the southwest quarter of Section 19, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2006-9     - -           From R-2 to C-3; part of the east half of Section 12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2006-10    - -           From A-1 to R-2; part of the southwest quarter of Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2006-14    - -           From A-1 to R-1; part of the northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2006-15    - -           From A-1 to R-1; part of the southeast quarter of Section 12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2006-17    - -           From R-2 to C-1; 478 Main Street, south half of Lots 11 through 17.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2006-18    - -           From R-2 to C-1; 118 East Johnson Avenue, Block 3, Johnson s addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2006-19    - -           From R-2 to C-1; 142 East Johnson Avenue, Block 3, Johnson s addition.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2006-23    - -           From R-2 to C-2; the southwest quarter of Section 5, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2006-27    - -           From A-1 to R-1; part of the southwest quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2007-20    - -           From A-1 to C-3; part of the northwest quarter of Section 18, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2007-21    - -           From R-2 to C-2; part of the northeast quarter of Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2014-02    - -           From C-2 to R-1; part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2014-05    - -           From A-1 to C-2; part of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter, and the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter, of Section 12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2014-07    - -           From A-1 to R-1; part of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2014-08    - -           From A-1 to R-1; part of the northeast quarter of Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2014-10    - -           From A-1 to R-2; part of the southeast quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2015-02    - -           From R-2 to C-2; part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2015-07    - -           From A-1 to C-2; part of the east half of the southeast quarter of Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2017-03    - -           Chuck Bell, Wanda L. Sanders; from R-1 to R-E; Lot 5B, containing 3.11 acres, Section 11, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2005-17    7-11-2004     From A-1 to C-2; part E2 SE SE, 2.57 acres.
                           
                           (Prior Code, 14.16.02)

  2016-03    1-12-2016     From R-1 to C-3; approximately 0.64 acres located on 1045 E. Lowell Avenue.

  2016-13    6-14-2016     Robert D. and Rhonda C. Barenberg; Tract 1, from A-1 to R-1 (1.17 acres); and Tract 2, from A-1 to R-1 (four acres); Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2016-15    7-12-2016     Joseph R. and Megan L. Neal; from A-1 to R-1 (1.75 acres); Section 8, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2016-17    8-9-2016      Alan Hall; from A-1 to A-2 (3.85 acres); Section 31, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.

  2016-18    8-9-2016      Steven Turner, Petromark, Inc.; from C-1 to C-2 (0.55 acre); Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2016-19    8-9-2016      Justin Salter, V.P. of Northrock Builders, LLC; from A-1 to R-3 (0.25 acre); Section 31, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.

  2016-20    8-9-2016      Roderick G. and Kathleen I. Wallis; Tract 1, from A-1 to A-2 (4.98 acres), and Tract 2, from A-1 to C-2 (0.55 acres); Section 31, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.

  2016-26    9-13-2016     Alejandro and Maribel Loyola; from A-1 to R-3 (0.54 acre); Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2016-27    9-13-2016     Kirby Burks, Can-Ark Diamond Realty Holdings, LLC; from R-1 to R-3 (0.23 acre); Section 5, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2016-29    11-8-2016     Pat Simpson, trustee of the Simpson martial deduction trust; from A-1 to C-2 (0.48 acre); Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2016-30    11-8-2016     Denise L. Macintosh and Jeff Patterson; Block 1, Lot 1 from A-1 to C-2 (3.83 acres), Block 2, Lot 1 from A-1 to R-2 (6.27 acres), and Block 2, Lot 2 from A-1 to R-2 (6.09 acres); Section 12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2016-31    11-8-2016     Michael Thorpe, MST Properties, LLC; Lot 1R from A-1 to R-2 (1.52 acres), and Lot 3R from A-1 to R-2 (1.50 acres); Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2016-32    11-8-2016     Matthew and Kelsey Mangin; Tract 2 from R-1 to A-2 (2.01 acres); Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2017-09    2-14-2017     Labinot Dedushaj; Lot 1 from A-1 to R-1 (4.68 acres), and Lot 2 from A-1 to C-2 (0.59 acre); Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2017-10    2-14-2017     Chad Hatfield and Aaron Ruble; Tract B from A-1 to R-2 (1.79 acres); Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2017-11    2-14-2017     Thomas A. Hennelly; rezoning five tracts, all from A-1 to R-3; Section 32, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.

  2017-12    2-14-2017     Chuck Bell; Lot 1 from A-1 to C-2 (1.59 acres), Lots 2 and 3 from A-1 to R-2; Section 2, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2017-13    2-14-2017     Jake Helton; rezoning 54 lots, all from A-1 to R-3; Section 5, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2017-14    2-14-2017     Jake Helton; rezoning 113 lots, all from R-2 to R-3; Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2017-17    3-14-2017     Robert Smittle; Tract C from A-1 to A-2 (two acres); Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2017-18    3-14-2017     Susan Werling; from A-1 to A-2 (4.59 acres); part of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2017-19    3-14-2017     Brandon Sewell; rezoning 100 lots, all from R-1 to R-3.

  2017-25    6-13-2017     Marbella subdivision; rezoning four lots, all from A-1 to R-3.

  2017-26    6-13-2017     1001 Shores Avenue; from A-1 to R-E (2.23 acres); part of the east half of Section 6, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2017-27    6-13-2017     Kimberley Hutcheson; from A-1 to C-2 (0.6 acre); part of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2017-28    6-13-2017     Kimberley Hutcheson; from R-2 and C-1 to C-2 (1.14 acres); part of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2017-29    6-13-2017     Ferdinand Fourie; from R-2 to R-12 (2.78 acres); part of the north half of the southwest quarter of Section 12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2017-30    6-13-2017     Ferdinand Fourie; from R-2 to C-2 (12.35 acres); part of the north half of the southwest quarter of Section 12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2017-31    7-14-2017     Chuck Bell; from R- 12 to RM-12 (3.57 acres); part of Lot 3, part of Lot 4, part of Lot 5, all of Lot 6, and part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2017-33    9-12-2017     Danny and Diana Bashaw; from R-2 to A-2 (16.25 acres); part of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2017-34    9-12-2017     Kyle D. and Judy K. Castor; from C-1 and R-2 to C-2 (1.923 acres); Lots 1 through 12, Block 7, Johnson s addition.

  2017-41    11-14-2017    Gwendolen Ann Rakes; from A-1 to C- 3 (two acres); part of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter, and part of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 32, Township 19 north, Range 30 west.

  2017-42    11-14-2017    Julio Molano; from R- 2 to R-3 (0.80 acres); Lots 14, 15, 18, 19, 22, 23, 26, 27, and 30, Block 23, Bartlett s revised addition.

  2017-43    11-14-2017    Brett Hash, Hash Properties, LLC; from R-2 to RM-12; part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2018-04    3-14-2018     Derek R. and Sarah L. Kilpatrick; from A-1 to A-2 (3.18 acres), and A-1 to R-2 (1.80 acres); part of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 8, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2018-09    4-8-2018      Jason Young, P4 Partners, LTD; from A-1 to C-2 (25.97 acres); part of the northeast quarter of Section 12, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2018-08    4-10-2018     Lebron and Charlotte Tatum; from A-1 to A-2 (ten acres); 3860 Ozark Acres Drive.

  2018-13    5-29-2018     Powell McKinney, Pheasant Plot, LLC; from A-1 to R-1 (13.1 acres); part of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 24, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.

  2018-15    7-10-2018     Franciso Gomez; Tracts 1 and 2 from A-1 to R-1, and Tract 3 from A-1 to A-2; part of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 7, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2018-16    8-14-2018     Josh Porter; from A-1 to R-1 (1.22 acres), and from A-1 to C-3 (0.60 acre); 2908 South Rainbow Road.

  2019-03    1-8-2019      Nathan L. and Mary K. Van Name; from R-1 to A-2 (2.31 acres); 729 Shores Avenue.

  2019-08    5-28-2019     Nicholas Honea and Jared Schoonover; from R-1 to C-1 (0.21 acre); part of the southwest quarter to the northeast quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2019-14    7-22-2019     Edward Bowers; from A-1 to R-1 (1.35 acres); part of the southeast quarter of Section 36, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.

  2019-21    9-23-2019     Janet Wendike; from A-1 to A-2 (2.94 acres); part of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2019-22    9-23-2019     Janet Wendike; from A-1 to R-1 (1.09 acres); part of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 1, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2019-23    10-28-2019    James Clay and Paula R. Olden; from A-1 to R-3 (30.63 acres); part of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 8, Township 18 north, Range 30 west.

  2019-24    12-23-2019    Stephen Hershel and Carol M. Vanderpool; from A-1 to A-2 (3.67 acres); part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 8, Township 18 north, Range 31 west.

  2020-10    3-23-2020     Jimmy and Thekla Wallis; from A-1 to R-3 (54.9 acres); part of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter, part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter, and part of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 36, Township 19 north, Range 31 west.

  2021-01    1-25-2021     From A-1 to C-1; 2.85 acres of property located at 142 Healing Springs Road, Parcel No. 05-10129-001.

  2021-03    2-22-2021     From C-3 and R-2 to C-3; one acre of property located at 269 and 365 east Lowell Avenue, Parcel No. 05-10443- 000 and 05-10446- 000, and including a portion to the 20-foot alley and to the centerline of the existing right-of-way of Second Street.

  2021-04    2-22-2021     From A-2 and C-2 to R-1; 1.13 acres of property classified as A-2 and 4.54 acres of property classified as C-2, located at 546 and 568 Shores Avenue.

  2021-07    3-22-2021     From A-1 to R-3; 3.41 acres of property located at 739 Sand Road, Parcel No. 05- 10094-000.

  2021-08    3-22-2021     From A-1 to R-1; 5.97 acres of property located at Block 300 of Sherman Avenue, Western Terminus, Parcel No. 05-10225-001.

  2021-13    4-26-2021     From R-2 to R-4; 0.96 acres of property located at 308 East Johnson Avenue, Parcel No. 05-10497-000.

  2021-15    5-24-2021     From A-1 to R-1; five acres of property located at 201 Haxton Road, Bentonville, Parcel No. 05-10260- 002.

  2021-16    5-24-2021     From A-1 to R-4; 1.13 acres of property located at 593 South Rainbow Road, Parcel No. 05-10004-001.

  2021-20    7-26-2021     From R-3 to R-4; 30.63 acres of property located at 758 Burdine Lane, Parcel No. 05-10045- 322.

  2021-21    7-26-2021     From A-1 to R-4; 11.5 acres of property located at Block 700 of Ford Lane, Parcel No. 05-10045-309 and 05-10045-310.

  2021-24    8-23-2021     From R-3 to R-4; 3.41 acres of property located at 739 Sands Road, Parcel No. 05- 10094-000.

  2021-25    8-23-2021     Brett Hash of Hash Properties, LLC; from R-2 to R-4; 9.13 acres of property located at Block 1300 of South Main Street and Doral Drive, Parcel No. 05-12294-000.

  2021-30    8-23-2021     Misty McMulen and Roger and Teresa Meredeth; from A-1 and R-2 to C-1; 0.58 acres of property located at Block 400 of AR 112 and South Main Street, Parcel No. 05-10433-000 and 05-10432-000.

  2021-36    9-27-2021     From A-1 to R-3; 2.5 acres of property located at 855 Shores Avenue, Parcel No. 05-10012-000.

  2022-02    1-24-2022     From A-1 to PZD; 21.18 acres of property located at 2050 West Wallis Road, Parcel No. 05-10073-003 and 05-10073-004.

  2022-13    4-26-2022     From A-1 to R-2; 3.05 acres of property located at 977 West Shores Avenue, Parcel No. 05-10011-000.

  2022-15    6-28-2022     From A-1 to R-E; 18.42 acres of property located at 3168 Ozark Acres Drive, Parcel No. 05-10069-000.

  2022-18    8-23-2022     From A-1 to C-2; 0.941 acres of property located at 249 North Main Street, Parcel No. 05-10137-000.

  2022-19    9-27-2022     From A-1 to R-2; 1.43 acres of property located at 259 Bright Street, Parcel No. 05-10145-000.

  2022-20    10-25-2022    From RM-12 to C-2; for property located at the southern end of Torrey Pines Land, between The Creeks RV Park and the golf course, described as the western portion of Lot 90, Fairway Subdivision Ph.3.

  2022-21    11-29-2022    From A-1 to R-E; 2.85 acres of property located at 906 Sands Road, Parcel No. 05-10082- 000.

  2022-22    11-29-2022    From A-1 to R-E; 5.04 acres of property located at 2804 Ozark Acres Drive, Parcel No. 05-10492-000.

  2023-03    2-28-2023     From R-E to R-1; 1.0 acre tract located at 95 Brown Road.

  2023-06    4-25-2023     From A-1 to R-1; 3.323 acres of property located at 455 South Rainbow Road, Parcel No. 05- 1005-000 and 05- 10006-000.

  2023-08    6-27-2023     From A-1 to R-4; 40.2 acres of property located at 1499 W. Wallis.

  2023-13    9-26-2023     From R-3 to PZD; 53.7 acres of property located at Benton County Parcel No. 05-10285- 000 and 05-10274- 000.

  2023-14    10-24-2023    From A-1 and C-2 to PZD; 1.75 acres of property located at 260 North Main Street.

                            

                           
  ---------- ------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

TABLE V: IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS

  ---------- ------------- -------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description
  ---------- ------------- -------------

  ---------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description

  2005-26    - -           The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 1, the Creeks Special Sewer District (Gary L. Brandon, Greg Henry, Michael G. Shook).
                           
                           (Prior Code, § 14.08.01)

  2005-26    - -           The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 3, the Creeks Special Sewers District (Gary L. Brandon, Greg Henry, Michael G. Shook).
                           
                           (Prior Code, § 14.08.03)

  2005-28    - -           The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 2, Hyde Park (Brandon Sewell, Greg Henry, Paula Reynolds).
                           
                           (Prior Code, § 14.08.02)

  2006-6     - -           The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 4, Otter Creek (Gary L. Brandon, Sherri D. Brandon, Kim Williams).
                           
                           (Prior Code, § 14.08.04)

  2006-12    - -           The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 5, Sand Springs (Charles E. Bell, Sr., Larry J. Goddard, Brian D. Scott).
                           
                           (Prior Code, § 14.08.05)

  2006-13    - -           The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 6, Mt. View (Charles E. Bell, Bret Hash, Brian D. Scott).
                           
                           (Prior Code, § 14.08.06)

  2006-20    - -           The Cave Springs Municipal Property Owners’ Improvement District No. 7, Hampton Estates (Cameron Torabi, Charles Furlow, William Wibert).
                           
                           (Prior Code, § 14.08.07)

                            

                           
  ---------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

TABLE VI: LEASE AGREEMENTS; PURCHASES

  ---------- ------------- -------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description
  ---------- ------------- -------------

  ---------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description

  2001-3     - -           Lease purchase agreement with the Arkansas Soil and Water Conservation Commission for construction project financing for $636,881.44.
                           
                           (Prior Code, § 3.24.01)

  2007-9     - -           Lease purchase agreement with HD Supply Waterworks, LLC; purchase, and installation, of 550 Sensus Brand water meters with TouchRead capability.
                           
                           (Prior Code, § 10.20.01)

  2014-01    - -           Purchase of Chevrolet Tahoe for the city for $38,480 to be paid in 60 monthly payments.
                           
                           (Prior Code, § 3.24.04)

  2008-3     2-11-2008     The Sewer Expenses Agreement, and the Drip Lease Agreement; Exhibits A and B detail specific lists of alterations to the system.
                           
                           (Prior Code, § 10.12.02)

  2011-06    4-11-2011     John Jouvenaux (Council member), an owner of WWJD Inc., BBB septic and portable toilets, to enter into a contract with the city for the furnishing of septic services to buildings owned by the city.
                           
                           (Prior Code, § 3.20.02)

  2020-12    4-9-2020      Lease purchase agreement with Government Capital Corporation for a brush truck for the City Fire Department (lease agreement expires after 60 monthly payments).

  2021-10    4-26-2021     Waiving competitive bidding in order to accept a bid from Happy Playgrounds, LLC for the purchase and installation of new synthetic turf at the city park.

  2022-01    1-11-2022     Waiving competitive bidding for the purchase of a 2021 Dodge Ram 1500 truck for use by the Public Works Department.

  2022-05    1-24-2022     Waiving competitive bidding for the purchase of a 2022 Chevrolet Tahoe for use by the Cave Springs Fire Department.

  2022-06    1-24-2022     Waiving competitive bidding for the purchase of a 2022 Chevrolet Tahoe 4WD for use by the Cave Springs Police Department.

                            

                           
  ---------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

 

PARALLEL REFERENCES

References to Arkansas Code

References to Prior Code

References to Resolutions

References to Ordinances

REFERENCES TO ARKANSAS CODE

  ----------- --------------
  A.C. Cite   Code Section
  ----------- --------------

  ------------------------------------ -----------------------------------
  A.C. Cite                            Code Section
  3-1-101 et seq.                      110.01
  3-9-203                              110.04
  3-9-213                              35.17
  3-9-214                              35.17
  8-4-101                              114.04
  12-9-108(b)(3)                       31.05
  14-2-201                             36.20
  14-2-201 et seq.                     36.16
  14-2-203                             36.15
  14-2-204                             36.18
  14-37-103                            11.02
  14-42-110                            31.04
  14-42-112                            31.01
  14-44-109                            31.02
  14-52-101 et seq.                    34.20
  14-54-901                            90.03
  14-54-903                            90.01; 90.04
  14-54-904                            90.01
  14-55-501                            131.01
  14-55-502                            131.01
  14-55-502(a)                         130.99
  14-55-502(b)                         130.99
  14-55-504                            10.99
  14-56-103                            50.26; 50.27; 50.35; 50.36; 51.37
  14-56-202                            31.03 
  14-56-413                            32.28
  14-58-104                            35.02
  14-58-303                            35.02
  14-59-101 et seq.                    31.02
  14-59-107                            35.01
  14-235-207                           32.02
  14-235-301 et seq.                   51.19
  14-237-101 through 14-237-113        31.02
  14-268-101 et seq.                   152.01
  14-284-401 through 14-284-411        34.03
  15-54-103                            150.999
  15-57-301 et seq.                    114.03
  15-57-401 et seq                     114.03
  16-10-209(5)(F)                      33.02
  17-40-106                            111.06
  20-19-301                            91.01; 91.06
  20-22-701 et seq.                    94.04
  20-22-704                            94.03
  20-22-707                            94.03
  20-22-708                            94.03
  20-22-710                            94.03
  20-22-711                            94.03
  20-22-712                            94.03
  20-28-101 et seq.                    50.07
  23-17-501 et seq.                    153.06
  23-17-503(25)(A)(i) through(vi)      153.02
  23-17-503(25)(A)(iii) through (vi)   153.02
  23-17-505                            153.03
  23-17-506                            153.03
  23-17-510(e)                         153.04
  25-15-204                            150.015
  25-19-101 et seq.                    31.02; 32.23
  26-18-101 et seq.                    150.015
  26-52-101 et seq.                    35.16
  26-53-101 et seq.                    35.16
  26-57-614                            34.03
  26-77-101                            116.16
  26-77-102(e)                         116.16
  Title 27                             70.01
  27-14-104(29)                        71.01
  27-49-101                            70.01
  27-68-102                            153.02
                                        
                                       
  ------------------------------------ -----------------------------------

 

 

REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE

  ------------ -----------
  Prior Code   2021 Code
  ------------ -----------

  -------------- ---------------------
  Prior Code     2021 Code
  1.36.01        36.03
  1.36.02        36.03
  1.36.03        36.03
  1.36.04        36.03
  2.04.01        11.02
  2.12.01        31.02
  2.12.02        31.02
  2.20.01        31.03
  2.20.03        31.03
  2.24.01        34.01
  2.24.02        34.02
  2.24.03        34.03
  2.24.04        34.04
  2.24.05        34.05
  2.24.06        34.06
  2.24.07        34.07
  2.24.08        34.08
  2.24.09        34.09
  2.28.01        34.20
  2.28.02        34.21
  2.28.03        34.22
  2.28.04        34.23
  2.32.01        35.30
  2.32.02        35.30
  2.32.03        35.30
  2.32.04        35.30
  2.32.05        35.30
  2.32.06        35.30
  2.32.07        35.30
  2.36.01        31.05
  2.36.02        31.05
  2.40.01        33.01
  2.40.02        33.02
  2.40.03        33.03
  2.44.01        36.15
  2.44.02        36.16
  2.44.03        36.17
  2.44.04        36.18
  2.44.05        36.19
  2.44.06        36.20
  3.12.01        35.15
  3.12.02        35.15
  3.20.01        35.02
  3.20.02        TSO Table VI
  3.24.01        TSO Table VI
  3.34.04        TSO Table VI
  Chapter 4.04   TSO Table I
  Chapter 4.08   TSO Table I
  Chapter 4.12   TSO Table I
  Chapter 4.16   TSO Table I
  Chapter 4.24   TSO Table I
  Chapter 4.28   TSO Table I
  4.32.01        114.01
  4.32.02        114.02
  4.32.03        114.03
  4.32.04        114.04
  4.32.05        114.05
  4.32.06        114.06
  4.32.07        114.99
  4.32.09        114.07
  5.04.01        90.01
  5.04.02        90.01
  5.04.03        90.01
  5.04.04        90.01; 90.99
  5.04.05        90.01
  5.04.06        90.01
  5.04.07        90.01; 90.99
  5.04.08        90.01
  5.04.09        90.01
  5.04.10        90.01
  5.05.01        90.02
  5.05.02        90.02
  5.06.01        90.03
  5.06.02        90.03; 90.99
  5.06.03        90.03
  5.06.04        90.03
  5.06.05        90.03
  5.06.06        90.03
  5.07.01        90.04
  5.07.02        90.04
  5.07.03        90.04
  5.07.04        90.04
  5.07.05        90.04
  6.04.01        91.01
  6.04.02        91.02
  6.04.03        91.03
  6.04.04        91.04
  6.04.05        91.05
  6.04.06        91.06
  6.04.08        91.07
  6.04.09        91.08
  6.04.10        91.09; 91.99
  6.04.11        91.99
  7.04.01        131.01
  7.04.02        131.01
  7.08.01        130.01
  7.08.02        130.02
  7.08.03        130.03
  7.08.04        130.99
  7.12.01        131.02
  7.12.02        131.99
  7.12.03        131.02
  7.20.01        112.01; 112.99
  7.20.02        112.02; 112.99
  7.20.03        112.03
  7.20.04        112.04
  7.20.05        112.05
  7.24.01        90.30
  7.24.02        90.31
  7.24.03        90.99
  7.24.04        90.32
  7.28.01        113.01
  7.28.02        113.02
  7.28.03        113.99
  7.28.04        113.03
  7.28.05        113.04
  7.28.06        113.05
  7.32.01        110.01
  7.32.02        110.02
  7.32.03        110.03
  7.32.04        110.04
  7.36.01        90.16
  7.36.02        90.16
  7.36.03        90.99
  7.36.04        90.16
  7.40.01        111.01
  7.40.07        111.05
  7.40.08        111.06
  7.40.09        111.99
  8.04.01        70.01
  8.12.01        71.01
  8.12.02        71.02
  8.12.03        71.03
  8.12.04        71.99
  8.16.01        Ch. 72, Schd. I
  8.20.01        115.01
  8.20.02        115.02
  8.20.03        115.03
  8.20.04        115.04
  8.20.05        115.05
  8.20.06        115.06
  8.20.07        115.99
  8.24.01        90.15
  8.24.02        90.15
  8.24.03        90.15
  8.24.04        90.99
  8.24.05        90.15
  8.28.01        70.02
  8.28.02        70.02
  8.28.03        70.02
  8.28.04        70.02
  8.28.05        70.99
  Chapter 8.32   TSO Table II
  9.04.01        151.01
  9.04.02        151.02
  9.04.03        151.03
  9.04.04        151.04
  9.04.05        151.05
  9.04.06        151.99
  9.08.01        151.20
  9.08.02        151.21
  9.08.03        151.22
  9.08.04        151.23
  9.08.05        151.24
  9.08.06        151.25
  9.08.07        151.26
  9.08.08        151.27
  9.08.09        151.28
  9.08.10        151.99
  10.04.01       51.01
  10.04.02       51.02
  10.04.03       51.03
  10.04.04       51.04
  10.04.06       51.05
  10.04.07       51.06
  10.04.08       51.07
  10.04.09       51.08
  10.04.10       51.09
  10.04.11       51.10
  10.04.12       51.11
  10.04.15       51.12
  10.04.16       51.13
  10.04.17       51.14
  10.04.18       51.15
  10.04.19       51.16
  10.04.20       51.17
  10.04.21       51.18
  10.08.01       32.02
  10.08.02       32.02
  10.08.04       32.02
  10.12.01       51.21
  10.12.02       TSO Table VI
  10.12.03       51.21
  10.16.01       32.01
  10.16.02       32.01
  10.16.04       32.01
  10.20.01       50.01; TSO Table VI
  10.20.02       50.01
  10.20.04       50.03
  10.20.05       50.04
  10.20.08       50.07
  10.20.09       50.08
  10.20.10       50.09
  10.20.11       50.10
  10.20.12       50.11
  10.24.01       32.03
  10.24.02       32.03
  10.28.01       50.50
  10.28.02       50.51
  10.28.03       50.52
  10.28.04       50.53
  10.28.05       50.54
  10.28.06       50.55
  10.28.07       50.56
  10.28.08       50.57
  10.28.09       50.58
  10.28.10       50.59
  11.08.01       150.003
  11.08.02       150.003
  11.12.01       150.015
  11.12.02       150.016
  11.12.03       150.017
  11.12.04       150.018
  11.12.05       150.019
  11.12.06       150.020
  11.12.07       150.021
  11.12.08       150.022
  11.12.09       150.023
  11.12.10       150.024
  11.12.11       150.025
  11.12.12       150.027
  11.16.01       150.002
  11.16.02       150.002
  11.16.03       150.002
  11.16.04       150.999
  12.04.01       92.01
  12.04.02       92.02
  12.04.03       92.03
  12.04.04       92.04
  12.04.05       92.05
  12.04.06       92.06
  12.04.07       92.07
  12.04.08       92.08
  12.04.09       92.09
  12.04.10       92.99
  Chapter14.04   154.01
  14.08.01       TSO Table V
  14.08.02       TSO Table V
  14.08.03       TSO Table V
  14.08.04       TSO Table V
  14.08.05       TSO Table V
  14.08.06       TSO Table V
  14.08.07       TSO Table V
  14.12.01       152.01
  14.12.02       152.02
  14.12.03       152.03
  14.12.04       152.04
  14.12.05       152.05
  14.12.06       152.06
  14.12.07       152.07
  14.12.08       152.08
  14.12.09       152.09
  14.12.10       152.10
  14.12.11       152.10; 152.99
  14.16.01       TSO Table III
  14.16.02       TSO Table IV
  Chapter15.04   154.01
  15.08.01       150.040
  15.08.02       150.041
  15.08.03       150.042
  15.08.04       150.043
  15.08.05       150.999
  15.12.01       150.055
  15.12.02       150.056
  15.12.03       150.057
  15.12.04       150.058
  15.12.05       150.059
  15.12.06       150.060
  15.12.07       150.061
  15.12.08       150.062
  15.12.09       150.063
  15.12.10       150.064
  15.12.11       150.065
  15.12.12       150.066
  15.12.13       150.067
  15.12.14       150.068
  15.12.15       150.069
  15.12.16       150.070
  15.16.01       93.01
  15.16.02       93.02
  15.16.03       93.03
  15.16.04       93.04
  15.16.05       93.05
  15.16.06       93.06
  15.16.07       93.07
  15.16.08       93.08
  15.16.09       93.09
  15.16.10       93.10
  15.16.11       93.11; 93.99
  15.16.12       93.12
  15.16.13       93.13
  15.16.15       93.14; 93.99
                  
                 
  -------------- ---------------------

 

REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS

 

  ---------- ---------------- --------------
  Res. No.   Date Passed      Code Section
  2019-35    7-22-2019        50.35
                               
  ---------- ---------------- --------------

 

REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES

  ---------- ------------- -------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description
  ---------- ------------- -------------

  ---------- ------------- -----------------------------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description
  63         - -           35.15
  68         - -           35.02
  70         - -           TSO Table II
  71         - -           TSO Table II
  77         - -           TSO Table II
  82         - -           TSO Table II
  83         - -           151.20-151.28; 151.99
  86         - -           TSO Table II
  88         - -           TSO Table II
  91         - -           112.01-112.05; 112.99
  92         - -           TSO Table III
  94         - -           TSO Table IV
  95 6       - -           TSO Table III
  96         - -           150.040-150.043
  96-5       - -           TSO Table III
  96-9       - -           TSO Table II
  97         - -           90.30-90.32; 90.99
  97-4       - -           151.01-151.05; 151.99
  97-5       - -           TSO Table II
  98-3       - -           TSO Table III
  98-5       - -           31.05
  99         - -           TSO Table I
  99-4       - -           TSO Table IV
  99-5       - -           TSO Table IV
  99-7       - -           TSO Table II
  99-8       - -           TSO Table IV
  99-10      - -           TSO Table IV
  99-13      - -           TSO Table III
  105        - -           TSO Table II
  107        - -           131.02
  108        - -           TSO Table II
  109        - -           TSO Table II
  2000-7     - -           115.01-115.06; 115.99
  2003-3     - -           TSO Table VI
  2000-11    - -           34.04
  2001-8     - -           TSO Table III
  2002-9     - -           TSO Table III
  2002-12    - -           35.30
  2003-6     - -           71.01-71.03; 71.99
  2003-7     - -           TSO Table II
  2003-10    - -           113.01-113.05; 113.99
  2003-12    - -           150.003
  2003-13    - -           130.01-130.03; 130.99
  2003-15    - -           90.15; 90.99
  2004-8     - -           TSO Table IV
  2004-9     - -           TSO Table II
  2004-10    - -           150.003
  2004-12    - -           TSO Table III
  2004-14    - -           TSO Table IV
  2004-15    - -           Ch. 72, Schd. I
  2004-16    - -           150.002; 150.999
  2004-19    - -           TSO Table III
  2004-20    - -           TSO Table IV
  2004-21    - -           TSO Table IV
  2005-4     - -           TSO Table IV
  2005-5     - -           TSO Table IV
  2005-6     - -           TSO Table IV
  2005-12    - -           TSO Table III
  2005-13    - -           TSO Table IV
  2005-16    - -           TSO Table II
  2005-18    - -           TSO Table IV
  2005-19    - -           TSO Table IV
  2005-20    - -           TSO Table IV
  2005-21    - -           32.02
  2005-22    - -           TSO Table IV
  2005-23    - -           TSO Table IV
  2005-24    - -           TSO Table IV
  2005-26    - -           TSO Table V
  2005-27    - -           TSO Table II
  2005-28    - -           TSO Table V
  2006-4     - -           TSO Table II; TSO Table IV
  2006-5     - -           TSO Table IV
  2006-6     - -           TSO Table V
  2006-9     - -           TSO Table IV
  2006-10    - -           TSO Table IV
  2006-12    - -           TSO Table V
  2006-13    - -           TSO Table V
  2006-14    - -           TSO Table IV
  2006-15    - -           TSO Table IV
  2006-17    - -           TSO Table IV
  2006-18    - -           TSO Table IV
  2006-19    - -           TSO Table IV
  2006-20    - -           TSO Table V
  2006-21    - -           70.02; 70.99
  2006-23    - -           TSO Table IV
  2006-27    - -           TSO Table IV
  2006-28    - -           32.03
  2007-3     - -           32.01
  2007-9     - -           TSO Table VI
  2007-10    - -           TSO Table II
  2007-17    - -           51.01-51.18
  2007-20    - -           TSO Table IV
  2007-21    - -           TSO Table IV
  2008-6     - -           TSO Table III
  2010-5     - -           36.03
  2011-2     - -           TSO Table III
  2011-4     - -           TSO Table III
  2011-5     - -           TSO Table III
  2012-4     - -           152.01-152.10; 152.99
  2013-1     - -           TSO Table I
  2013-2     - -           TSO Table II
  2013-3     - -           91.01-91.09; 91.99
  2013-5     - -           110.01; 110.04
  2013-6     - -           36.15-36.20
  2013-9     - -           34.20-34.23
  2013-10    - -           93.01-93.14; 93.99
  2013-12    - -           92.01-92.09; 92.99
  2013-13    - -           33.01
  2014-01    - -           TSO Table VI
  2014-3     - -           110.03
  2014-02    - -           TSO Table IV
  2014-05    - -           TSO Table IV
  2014-07    - -           TSO Table IV
  2014-08    - -           TSO Table IV
  2014-09    - -           90.16; 90.99
  2014-10    - -           TSO Table IV
  2014-12    - -           150.015; 150.017-150.027
  2015-02    - -           TSO Table IV
  2015-07    - -           TSO Table IV
  2015-08    - -           31.02
  2015-09    - -           50.03
  2017-03    - -           TSO Table IV
  2019-13    - -           50.30
  2021-35    - -           TSO Table III
  98         2-4-1991      TSO Table I
  100        3-4-1991      TSO Table I
  126        6-6-1994      150.055-150.070; 150.999
  97-10      10-6-1997     50.50-50.59
  2005-17    7-11-2004     TSO Table IV
  2008-3     2-11-2008     51.21; TSO Table VI
  2010-10    4-8-2010      50.01; 50.04; 50.07-50.11
  2011-06    4-11-2011     TSO Table VI
  2012-5     4-9-2012      34.01-34.03; 34.05-34.09
  2012-06    5-14-2012     31.03
  2012-11    12-17-2012    33.02; 33.03
  2015-01    1-26-2015     114.01-114.07; 114.99
  2016-03    1-12-2016     TSO Table IV
  2016-04    2-9-2016      110.02
  2016-06    4-12-2016     110.04
  2016-07    4-12-2016     35.17
  2016-12    6-14-2016     32.15-32.28
  2016-13    6-14-2016     TSO Table IV
  2016-15    7-12-2016     TSO Table IV
  2016-17    8-9-2016      TSO Table IV
  2016-18    8-9-2016      TSO Table IV
  2016-19    8-9-2016      TSO Table IV
  2016-20    8-9-2016      TSO Table IV
  2016-21    8-9-2016      116.01-116.16
  2016-24    8-9-2016      50.12
  2016-26    9-13-2016     TSO Table IV
  2016-27    9-13-2016     TSO Table IV
  2016-29    11-8-2016     TSO Table IV
  2016-30    11-8-2016     TSO Table IV
  2016-31    11-8-2016     TSO Table IV
  2016-32    11-8-2016     TSO Table IV
  2017-08    2-14-2017     TSO Table III
  2017-09    2-14-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-10    2-14-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-11    2-14-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-12    2-14-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-13    2-14-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-14    2-14-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-15    2-14-2017     31.02
  2017-16    2-14-2017     36.02
  2017-17    3-14-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-18    3-14-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-19    3-14-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-22    5-9-2017      31.01
  2017-25    6-13-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-26    6-13-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-27    6-13-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-28    6-13-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-29    6-13-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-30    6-13-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-31    7-14-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-32    8-9-2017      31.04
  2017-33    9-12-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-34    9-12-2017     TSO Table IV
  2017-35    9-12-2017     TSO Table II
  2017-40    11-14-2017    150.001
  2017-41    11-14-2017    TSO Table IV
  2017-42    11-14-2017    TSO Table IV
  2017-43    11-14-2017    TSO Table IV
  2017-45    11-14-2017    TSO Table III
  2017-46    11-14-2017    TSO Table III
  2017-47    12-12-2017    TSO Table II
  2017-48    12-12-2017    TSO Table III
  2018-02    1-9-2018      11.01
  2018-3     2-13-2018     31.02
  2018-04    3-14-2018     TSO Table IV
  2018-09    4-8-2018      TSO Table IV
  2018-07    4-10-2018     36.01
  2018-08    4-10-2018     TSO Table IV
  2018-10    5-8-2018      TSO Table III
  2018-12    5-8-2018      51.20
  2018-13    5-29-2018     TSO Table IV
  2018-15    7-10-2018     TSO Table IV
  2018-16    8-14-2018     TSO Table IV
  2018-18    9-11-2018     52.01
  2018-19    10-9-2018     TSO Table III
  2019-01    1-8-2019      32.02
  2019-02    1-8-2019      32.01
  2019-03    1-8-2019      TSO Table IV
  2019-05    2-25-2019     50.06
  2019-06    3-25-2019     TSO Table I
  2019-07    5-28-2019     35.02
  2019-08    5-28-2019     TSO Table IV
  2019-09    5-28-2019     35.01
  2019-10    5-28-2019     154.01
  2019-13    7-22-2019     50.25-50.36
  2019-14    7-22-2019     TSO Table IV
  2019-15    8-26-2019     51.35-51.46; 51.99
  2019-16    8-26-2019     153.01-153.07
  2019-17    8-26-2019     50.02; 50.05; 50.99
  2019-18    9-9-2019      35.16
  2019-21    9-23-2019     TSO Table IV
  2019-22    9-23-2019     TSO Table IV
  2019-23    10-28-2019    TSO Table IV
  2019-24    12-23-2019    TSO Table IV
  2020-02    1-27-2020     154.01
  2020-04    1-27-2020     154.01
  2020-07    1-27-2020     154.01
  2020-09    3-23-2020     30.01-30.08
  2020-10    3-23-2020     TSO Table IV
  2020-11    3-23-2020     TSO Table III
  2020-12    4-9-2020      TSO Table VI
  2020-13    4-27-2020     154.01
  2021-01    1-25-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-02    2-22-2021     51.13; 51.19
  2021-03    2-22-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-04    2-22-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-06    3-22-2021     TSO Table II
  2021-07    3-22-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-08    3-22-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-05    4-26-2021     TSO Table III
  2021-09    4-26-2021     TSO Table I
  2021-10    4-26-2021     TSO Table VI
  2021-11    4-26-2021     TSO Table I
  2021-12    4-26-2021     TSO Table I
  2021-13    4-26-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-14    5-24-2021     154.01
  2021-15    5-24-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-16    5-24-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-17    6-28-2021     52.02-52.08; 52.99
  2021-18    6-28-2021     154.01
  2021-20    7-26-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-21    7-26-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-24    8-23-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-25    8-23-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-27    8-23-2021     154.02
  2021-28    8-23-2021     154.01
  2021-29    8-23-2021     TSO Table II
  2021-30    8-23-2021     TSO Table IV
  2021-31    8-23-2021     TSO Table I
  2021-32    9-27-2021     150.015-150.018; 150.026; 150.999
  2021-33    9-27-2021     94.01-94.04; 94.99
  2021-34    9-27-2021     TSO Table III
  2021-36    9-27-2021     TSO Table IV
  2022-01    1-11-2022     TSO Table VI
  2022-02    1-24-2022     TSO Table IV
  2022-03    1-24-2022     30.01-30.08
  2022-04    1-24-2022     Adopting Ordinance
  2022-05    1-24-2022     TSO Table VI
  2022-06    1-24-2022     TSO Table VI
  2022-10    3-22-2022     31.02
  2022-12    4-26-2022     35.02
  2022-13    4-26-2022     TSO Table IV
  2022-14    5-24-2022     154.01
  2022-15    6-28-2022     TSO Table IV
  2022-16    6-28-2022     50.03
  2022-18    8-23-2022     TSO Table IV
  2022-19    9-27-2022     TSO Table IV
  2022-20    10-25-2022    TSO Table IV
  2022-21    11-29-2022    TSO Table IV
  2022-22    11-29-2022    TSO Table IV
  2023-01    2-14-2023     91.01
  2023-02    2-14-2023     30.07
  2023-03    2-28-2023     TSO Table IV
  2023-04    3-14-2023     154.01
  2023-05    3-28-2023     111.01-111.07, 111.99
  2023-06    4-25-2023     TSO Table IV
  2023-07    6-27-2023     90.01
  2023-08    6-27-2023     TSO Table IV
  2023-09    7-25-2023     150.002
  2023-10    7-25-2023     150.001
  2023-11    7-25-2023     150.005
  2023-12    7-25-2023     150.004
  2023-13    9-26-2023     TSO Table IV
  2023-14    10-24-2023    TSO Table IV
  2024-02    2-27-2024     30.01-30.08
                            
                           
  ---------- ------------- -----------------------------------

 

 
