EAST LYME, CONNECTICUT
CODE OF ORDINANCES

2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through April 16, 2025

 

Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com

CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF EAST LYME

Sec. 1.4 affects some of these ordinances and resolutions: Special acts
and ordinances or portions thereof inconsistent with this charter
and superseded by it shall have no further force or effect after the
effective date of this charter.

Revised 2023

CHAPTER 1 - INCORPORATION AND GENERAL POWERS

Section

   1.1   Incorporation

   1.2   Rights and Obligations

   1.3   General Grant of Powers

   1.4   Authority and Purpose of Charter

   1.5   Definitions

1.1   Incorporation

   All of the inhabitants dwelling within the territorial limits of the
Town of East Lyme, as said limits now are or may hereafter be
constituted by law, shall continue to be a body politic and corporate
under the name of “Town of East Lyme,” hereinafter called “the town,”
and as such shall have perpetual succession and may hold and exercise
all powers and privileges heretofore vested in said town and not
inconsistent with the provisions of this charter, the additional powers
and privileges herein conferred and all powers and privileges presently
or hereafter conferred upon towns under the general laws of the State of
Connecticut.

1.2.   Rights and Obligations

   All property interest, both real and personal, all actions, rights
and causes of action and rights of every description and all securities
and liens vested or inchoate which the town possesses as of the
effective date of this charter shall be continued in said town. The town
shall continue to be liable for all debts and obligations of every kind
for which the town shall be liable on said date. Nothing herein shall be
construed to affect the right of the town to collect any assessments,
charge, debt or lien. If any contract has been entered into by said town
prior to the effective date of this charter or any bond or undertaking
has been given by or in favor of said town which contains a provision
that the same may be enforced by any commission, board, department or
officer therein named, which is abolished by the provisions of this
charter, such contracts, bonds or undertakings shall be in no manner
impaired but shall continue in full force and effect and the powers
conferred and the duties imposed with reference to the same upon any
such commission, board, department or officer shall, except as otherwise
provided in this charter, thereafter be exercised and discharged by the
board of selectmen of said town.

1.3.   General Grant of Powers

   In addition to all powers granted to the town under the constitution
and general statutes, the town shall have all powers granted by this
charter, all powers fairly implied in or incident to the powers
expressly granted and all other powers incident to the management,
government, and affairs of the town, including the power to enter into
contracts with the United States or any federal agency, the State of
Connecticut or any political subdivision, agency or instrumentality
thereof for purposes not prohibited by law. The enumeration of specific
powers in this and any other chapter of this charter shall not be
construed as limiting this general grant of powers but shall be
considered as in addition thereto.

1.4.   Authority and Purpose of Charter

   This charter shall be the organic law of the town in the
administration of its local affairs and serves to advance the
effectiveness and efficiency of Town governance. Special acts and
ordinances or portions thereof inconsistent with this charter and
superseded by it shall have no further force or effect after the
effective date of this charter. Other special acts affecting the town,
and all other ordinances and resolutions duly adopted and in force
before the effective date of this charter, remain in force.

1.5.   Definitions

   1.5.1.   The term “board” or “boards” as used in this charter shall
be deemed to include all boards, commissions, agencies and committees,
except as otherwise specified.

   1.5.2.   The terms “prescribed by law” and “provided by law” as used
in this charter shall be deemed to mean prescribed or provided by the
general statutes, by charter, and by ordinance.

   1.5.3.   The term “enact” or “enactment” as used in Chapter 3 of this
charter shall be deemed to include the adoption, amendment or repeal of
an ordinance.

   1.5.4.   The term “department” as used in Section 6.3. of this
charter shall be deemed to mean each board, commission, committee and
agency of the town for which an appropriation was made in the annual
budget; each official who is not a member of a board, commission,
committee or agency for whom an appropriation was made in the annual
budget; each separate function of the town for which the Board of
Selectmen is responsible.

CHAPTER 2 - ELECTIONS AND ELECTIVE OFFICERS

Section

   2.1   Town Elections

   2.2   Voting Districts

   2.3   Eligibility

   2.4   Minority Representation

   2.5   Vacancies in Elective Offices

   2.6   Records

   2.7   Terms of Office of Board of Selectmen

   2.8   Four-Year Term Offices; Organization; Compensation

   2.9   Board of Education

   2.10   Board of Finance

   2.11   Planning Commission

   2.12   Zoning Commission

   2.13   Board of Assessment Appeals

   2.14   Additional Elective Boards and Commissions

   2.15   Alternate Members of the Planning Commission

   2.16   Alternate Members of the Zoning Commission

2.1.   Town Elections

   2.1.1.   A meeting of the electors of the Town of East Lyme,
hereafter called “the regular town election”, shall take place on the
Tuesday following the first Monday in November, 1965 and biennially
thereafter. Special town elections may be called from time to time in
accordance with the general statutes.

   2.1.2.   All elective town officers shall take office on the first
Monday of December next succeeding their election and they shall
continue in office until their successors have been chosen and have
qualified.

2.2.   Voting Districts

   The number of voting districts in the town shall be as determined by
the legislative body as provided by law.

2.3.   Eligibility

   No person who is not at the time of his election a resident elector
of the Town of East Lyme shall be eligible for election to any town
office, and any person ceasing to be a resident elector of the town
shall thereupon cease to hold elective office in the town and the office
shall be deemed vacant. All elective officers shall be sworn before
taking office and the officer administering the oath shall record such
fact in the office of the town clerk.

2.4.   Minority Representation

   Membership on all boards provided for by this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the minority representation law as set
forth in the general statutes.

2.5.   Vacancies in Elective Offices

   2.5.1.   The Board of Selectmen shall fill by appointment a vacancy
in an elective office within thirty days from the time that the office
becomes vacant, except as otherwise provided by law.

   2.5.2.   A vacancy occurring on the Board of Education, Board of
Finance, Planning Commission, Zoning Commission and Board of Assessment
Appeals shall be filled by vote of the remaining members, including
alternate members duly seated as provided by ordinance; but if the
vacancy is not filled within thirty days from the time that the office
becomes vacant, the Board of Selectmen shall fill the vacancy by
appointment within thirty days thereafter.

   2.5.3.   Vacancies on the Board of Selectmen shall be filled in the
manner prescribed by the general statutes.

   2.5.4.   Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 2.5, an appointee to
a vacancy in an elective office shall serve the remainder of the term
that was filled.

   2.5.5.   A vacancy occurring among the alternate members of the
Planning Commission or the Zoning Commission shall be filled by a vote
of the members of that Commission including any alternate members then
serving for absent or disqualified commissioners, and the member filling
the vacancy shall serve the remainder of the term that was filled. If
the vacancy is not filled within thirty days from the time that the
office becomes vacant, the Board of Selectmen shall fill the vacancy by
appointment within thirty days thereafter.

2.6.   Records

   Copies of all minutes taken by each board and the recorded vote of
each member thereof on all issues shall be filed with the Town Clerk and
with the First Selectman in accordance with state statute. The Town
Clerk shall maintain files of such minutes, also in accordance with
state statute and shall be a permanent record of the Town.

2.7.   Terms of Office of Board of Selectmen

   The Board of Selectmen shall consist of a First Selectman and five
Selectmen. At the next regular municipal election, in November 2025, a
First Selectman and two other Selectmen shall be elected to serve terms
of four years, and three other Selectmen shall be elected to serve terms
of two years. At all subsequent municipal elections, the term of the
office of First Selectman and the term of the office of the other
Selectmen shall be four years. The votes cast, including any valid
write-in votes, for an unsuccessful candidate for First Selectman, shall
not be counted as votes for that person as one of the other Selectmen.
For purposes of determining minority representation only, the First
Selectman shall be counted as a member of the Board.

2.8.   Four-Year Term Offices: Organization: Compensation

   2.8.1.   At the regular town election in November of 1965 and
quadrennially thereafter, a Treasurer shall be elected. The Treasurer
shall also exercise the function of the agent of the town deposit fund.
The Treasurer shall serve terms of four years and shall have the powers
and duties prescribed by law.

   2.8.2.   Following the transition period of each board, there shall
be elected at each biennial town election for terms of four years,
one-half of each board authorized by Sections 2.9 through 2.12
inclusive, of this charter. Alternate members of the Planning and Zoning
Commissions shall be elected biennially in a ratio of one-third and
two-thirds of the members, respectively.

   2.8.3.   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all boards
authorized in this chapter shall meet within thirty days of taking
office and shall make regulations for the conduct of their meetings and
the execution of their duties. Such regulations and any amendments
thereto shall be filed with the Town Clerk, and shall be public records.

   2.8.4.   The members of the boards named in Sections 2.9 through 2.12
inclusive of this charter, shall serve without compensation except that
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties shall be
paid from an appropriation for that purpose.

   2.8.5.   At the regular election in November of 1990 and
quadrennially thereafter, there shall be elected such number of
Registrars of Voters as may be required by the General Statutes, and
such number of Justices of the Peace as may be required by Ordinance, or
in the absence of an applicable Ordinance, by the General Statutes.

2.9.   Board of Education

   The Board of Education shall consist of ten members serving four year
terms. Such Board shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law.

2.10.   Board of Finance

   The Board of Finance shall consist of six members serving four year
terms. Such Board shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law.

2.11   Planning Commission

   The Planning Commission shall consist of six members serving four
year terms. Such Commission shall have the powers and duties prescribed
by law.

2.12   Zoning Commission

   The Zoning Commission shall consist of six members serving four year
terms. Such Commission shall have the powers and duties prescribed by
law.

2.13   Board of Assessment Appeals

   The Board of Assessment Appeals shall consist of five members serving
four year terms to be elected in accordance with the transition process
described in section 8.2.7. Such Board shall have the powers and duties
prescribed by law.

2.14   Additional Elective Boards and Commissions

   The Board of Selectmen may, by ordinance, create additional boards
and shall specify their powers and duties in such ordinance.

2.15   Alternate members of the Planning Commission

   Three alternate members of the Planning Commission shall be elected
to serve four year terms. Such members shall have the powers and duties
prescribed by law.

2.16   Alternate members of the Zoning Commission

   Three alternate members of the Zoning Commission shall be elected to
serve four year terms. Such alternate members shall not be members of
the Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning Commission. Such members shall
have the powers and duties prescribed by law.

CHAPTER 3 - BOARD OF SELECTMEN

Section

   3.1   Compensation; Other Office-Holding

   3.2   First Selectman

   3.3   Board of Selectmen; General Powers, Duties and Procedures

   3.4   Enactment of Ordinances

3.1.   Compensation: Other Office-Holding

   3.1.1.   There shall be a Board of Selectmen consisting of the First
Selectman and five Selectmen. The compensation of the First Selectman
shall be included in the proposed budget of the Board of Selectmen. Any
compensation for the five Selectmen shall be included in the proposed
budget of the Board of Selectmen. Necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of the duties of the First Selectman and the five Selectmen
shall be paid from an appropriation for that purpose.

   3.1.2.   The First Selectman, during his term of office, shall not
hold any civil office which provides compensation, under the government
of the United States, the State of Connecticut, or any subdivision
thereof, except that of Notary Public.

   3.1.3.   No member of the Board of Selectmen, during his term of
office, shall hold or be appointed to any other office or employment in
the government of the town, except as provided hereinafter, and except
as may be prescribed by law.

3.2.   First Selectman

   3.2.1.   The First Selectman shall be the chief executive and
administrative officer of the town and shall have the powers and duties
of First Selectman prescribed by law. He shall be the official head of
the town for all ceremonial purposes, for military purposes and for the
purpose of receiving civil process. He shall establish and be
responsible for the administrative and personnel policies for town
offices and employees, with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, and
shall execute or cause to be executed the town ordinances, regulations,
resolutions and policies voted by the Board of Selectmen. The First
Selectman, with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, shall generally
supervise the administration of the affairs of the town, except those
matters which by the general statutes, by charter, or by ordinance, are
exclusively committed to the Board of Education or other boards. He
shall preside over meetings of the Board of Selectmen.

   3.2.2.   Within thirty days after the Board of Selectmen takes
office, the First Selectman shall designate each of the other members of
the Board of Selectmen as an ex-officio member without vote, of one or
more of the town boards. The ex-officio members shall regularly attend
the meetings of the boards to which they have been appointed and shall
report to such boards and to the Board of Selectmen matters relating to
the mutual interests of such bodies.

   3.2.3.   The First Selectman shall hire and dismiss employees of the
town, except employees of the Board of Education and except employees
whose employment is otherwise provided by law, and shall give notice of
each hiring or dismissal to the Board of Selectmen at its next meeting.
Such hiring or dismissal may be overruled only by a majority vote of the
Board of Selectmen at its next meeting following such notification.

   3.2.4.   The First Selectman shall have responsibility for the care,
maintenance and operation of all buildings, lands, apparatus and
property which are subject to the control of the Board of Selectmen.

3.3.   Board of Selectmen, General Powers, Duties and Procedures

   3.3.1.   The Board of Selectmen shall have the sole power, subject to
the requirements of the general statutes and of this charter:

      3.3.1.1.   to incur indebtedness in the name of the town and to
provide for the due execution of contracts and evidences of indebtedness
issued by the town;

      3.3.1.2.   to accept or abandon as a public highway any street or
highway situated in the town after approval by the Planning Commission;

      3.3.1.3.   to institute, prosecute, defend or compromise any legal
action or proceeding by or against the town; provided that the assessor
is authorized to settle tax assessment appeals resulting in a payment of
$40,000 or less.

      3.3.1.4.   to enter into contracts for any services and to
purchase or to contract to purchase any supplies, materials, equipment
and other commodities required by any town agency, except the Board of
Finance and except the Board of Education. However, the Board of
Education may request the Board of Selectmen to act for it in the making
of such contracts and purchases; and the Board of Selectmen may delegate
its powers in this Section 3.3.1.4. to any town agency or to the First
Selectman;

      3.3.1.5.   with Board of Finance approval, to purchase real
estate, the price of which shall not exceed ten thousand dollars and
accept gifts of real estate;

   3.3.2.   The Board of Selectmen shall have such other powers and
duties as are provided for board of selectmen by the general statutes
and this charter. The Board of Selectmen shall be the legislative body
of the town except as otherwise provided by this charter and may
exercise any of the powers conferred on towns by the General Statutes to
the extent that such powers are not otherwise granted or limited by this
charter.

   3.3.3.   The Board of Selectmen shall be responsible for coordinating
the activities of all the agencies of the town, and for keeping under
review the present and future needs of the town. It shall require such
reports and joint meetings as may be useful to it in the performance of
its duties.

   3.3.4.   At the first meeting after the Board of Selectmen takes
office, a majority of the members shall designate one of their number
who shall, until any vacancy is filled in accordance with the general
statutes, upon the absence or disability of the First Selectman, preside
at meetings of the Board of Selectmen and have such powers and perform
such other duties of an absent or disabled First Selectman as the Board
of Selectmen may designate by regulation.

   3.3.5.   In accordance with state statute, the Board of Selectmen
shall retain all minutes and records of the boards which are filed with
the Board of Selectmen.

   3.3.6.   A majority of the Board of Selectmen shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of any business. The Board of Selectmen shall
make regulations for the conduct of its meetings and for the execution
of its duties, and shall hold regular meetings. Such regulations shall
be filed with the Town Clerk and shall be public records.

   3.3.7.   The Board of Selectmen may, by resolution, delegate to the
First Selectman, its obligation to sign the orders of the Board of
Selectmen on the Town Treasurer for payment of the expenses of the town.
Such delegation may be limited in such manner as the Board of Selectmen
may deem advisable.

3.4.   Enactment of Ordinances

   3.4.1.   The Board of Selectmen shall have the power to enact
ordinances consistent with the General Statutes and this charter on any
matter which the General Statutes or this charter permit to be regulated
by ordinance, and in general for the preservation of the order, health,
welfare and safety of the town and its inhabitants.

   3.4.2.   At least one public hearing shall be held by the Board of
Selectmen before enacting any proposed ordinance. Notice of a hearing
shall be given by posting the proposed ordinance and the time and place
of the hearing on the Town’s website, not less than ten days before the
date of such hearing.

   3.4.3.   Upon enactment of an ordinance, notice thereof shall be
given in accordance with the law of the official title of the ordinance
and its effective date, and by publishing notice of its adoption along
with the full text of the ordinance on the Town’s website and filing
with the Town Clerk. Such ordinance shall not become effective sooner
than ten days after notice of its publication. If, within ten days after
such publication, petitions are filed with the clerk carrying the
signatures and street addresses of two hundred or more electors
requesting a town meeting to act upon overrule of such ordinance, the
effective date of such ordinance shall be suspended until such action to
overrule is resolved. If such petitions are so filed and verified by the
Town Clerk, the Board of Selectmen shall call a special town meeting to
be held within twenty days after the date of receipt by the Town Clerk
of such petitions, by publication of notice of the time and place of
such special town meeting and the full text of such ordinance on the
Town’s website and in accordance with state statute, not less than five
days before the date of such special town meeting. Two hundred electors
shall constitute a quorum at such special town meeting, and such
ordinance shall be overruled, void and of no effect if a majority of the
electors voting at such special town meeting, or if a quorum is present
and a majority of the electors present does not vote to overrule such
ordinance, such ordinance shall become effective upon publication of the
official title of such ordinance on the Town’s website.

   3.4.4.   Wherever publication is required by this section, such
publication shall be the responsibility of the First Selectman.

CHAPTER 4 - APPOINTIVE BOARDS AND OFFICERS

Section

   4.1   Appointments

   4.2   Terms

   4.3   Minority Representation

   4.4   General Powers and Procedures; Records, Compensation

   4.5   Appointive Boards

   4.6   Appointive Officers

   4.7   Removal for Cause

4.1.   Appointments

   4.1.1.   The Board of Selectmen, within thirty days of taking office
shall appoint, as required in Sections 4.2 and 4.3 of this charter,
unless otherwise provided by ordinance, the members of all boards and
all officers authorized by this chapter. During the last sixty days of
their term, the Board of Selectmen may only make appointments to expire
on the first Monday of January next succeeding.

   4.1.2.   All appointive officers shall be sworn before taking office
and the officer administering the oath shall record such fact in the
office of the Town Clerk.

4.2.   Terms

   4.2.1.   The terms of appointment to any board shall be four years,
commencing the first Monday of January in the even-numbered years and
shall expire at staggered biennial intervals.

   4.2.2.   Any appointment to the office of Town Director of Emergency
Management for the Town of East Lyme shall be for a term of four years.

   4.2.3.   The terms of appointment of all other officers shall be four
years, unless otherwise specified, commencing the first Monday of
January, 1966 and quadrennially thereafter.

   4.2.4.   Any vacancy shall be filled within thirty days by the Board
of Selectmen for the unexpired term, unless otherwise provided by
ordinance.

4.3.   Minority Representation

   Membership on all boards named in section 4.5.2. of this charter
shall be determined in accordance with the minority representation law
as set forth in the general statutes.

4.4.   General Powers and Procedures: Records: Compensation

   4.4.1.   All boards and officers shall have the powers and duties
prescribed by law.

   4.4.2.   All boards shall make regulations for the conduct of their
meetings and the execution of their duties. Such regulations and any
amendments thereto shall be filed with the Town Clerk and shall be
public records.

   4.4.3.   Copies of all minutes taken by each board and the recorded
vote of each member thereof on all issues shall be filed with the Town
Clerk and with the First Selectman as required by statute on which such
actions are taken. The Town Clerk shall maintain files of such minutes,
which shall be public records.

   4.4.4.   Board members shall serve without compensation except that
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties shall be
paid from an appropriation for that purpose. The compensation of
individual officers shall be determined by the Board of Selectmen,
subject to the provisions of necessary appropriation. The compensation
of officers on fee basis shall be determined by the Board of Selectmen
in the absence of provision by the General Statutes.

4.5.   Appointive Boards and Commissions

   4.5.1.   Effective on the first Monday of January, 1966, there is
constituted a seven member Parks and Recreation Commission.

   4.5.2.   In addition to those board and commissions established by
ordinance, the Board of Selectmen shall appoint members to the boards
and commissions as follows:

 

  ---------------------------------------------------
  Zoning Board of Appeals, five members;
  Alternate Zoning Board of Appeals, three members;
  Water and Sewer Commission, eight members;
  Parks and Recreation Commission, seven members;
  Building Code Board of Appeals, five members.
  Town Building committee, seven members.
  ---------------------------------------------------

 

   4.5.3.   Except as provided by law, no person who is not at the time
of their appointment a resident elector of the Town of East Lyme shall
be eligible for appointment to any town board or commission and any
person ceasing to be a resident elector of the town shall cease to hold
such office and the office shall be deemed vacant.

   4.5.2.   The Board of Selectmen may, by ordinance, create boards and
specify their powers and duties. The Board of Selectmen may, by
ordinance, abolish or consolidate boards and may likewise by ordinance,
alter their powers and duties and change their membership.

4.6.   Appointive Officers

   4.6.1.   The Board of Selectmen shall provide for the appointment of
the Tree Warden, Town Director of Emergency Management and Building
Official.

   4.6.2.   The Board of Selectmen shall appoint such other officers as
are required by law and may appoint such other officers as are or may be
permitted by law, subject to the provision of necessary appropriation.

4.7.   Removal for Cause

   4.7.1.   Except as required by law, an appointed officer or a member
of an appointive board may be removed only for cause by the Board of
Selectmen.

   4.7.2.   Except as required by law, no such removal for cause shall
be effected unless the officer or member has received a statement in
writing of the reasons why he should be removed. This statement shall be
prepared by the Board of Selectmen. Not less than fifteen days after the
delivery of the statement of reasons, an opportunity for a public
hearing before the Board of Selectmen must be provided at which time the
appointed officer or member may appear with counsel.

CHAPTER 5 - ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS, AGENCIES AND EMPLOYEES

Section

   5.1   Terms and Compensation

   5.2   Town Counsel

   5.3   Town Meeting Moderator

   5.4   Other Administrative Officers

5.1.   Terms and Compensation

   All administrative officers, unless otherwise provided in this
charter, shall hold office for terms commencing on the first Monday of
January in the even numbered years. Their compensation shall not be
diminished during their term of office.

5.2.   Town Counsel

   The Board of Selectmen shall appoint town counsel to a term of four
years to furnish such legal services to the town and its agencies as the
Board of Selectmen may authorize.

5.3.   Town Meeting Moderator

   The Board of Selectmen shall appoint for a term of two years a Town
Meeting Moderator and a Deputy Town Meeting Moderator who shall have the
powers and duties prescribed by law. Said appointees shall not be of the
same political party. The Town Moderator and Deputy Town Moderator
shall, at the time of their appointment, be a resident elector of the
Town of East Lyme and in the event they cease to be a town elector, they
shall cease to hold the office and the office shall be deemed vacant.

5.4.   Other Administrative Officers

   The Board of Selectmen shall have the authority to hire such other
officers as are required and may hire such other officers as are, or may
be permitted by law, subject to the provisions of necessary
appropriation. Such officers shall include but not be limited to the
Assessor, Town Clerk, Tax Collector and Fire Marshal. Notwithstanding,
the currect elected Town Clerk and Tax Collector shall continue to serve
the balance of their terms ending on December 1, 2025, unless a vacancy
occurs sooner.

CHAPTER 6 - FINANCE AND TAXATION

Section

   6.1   Preparation of the Budget

   6.2   Laying and Collection of Taxes

   6.3   Special Appropriation and Transfers of Appropriations

   6.4   Accounting and Expenditures

6.1.   Preparation of the Budget

   6.1.1.   At such time and in such manner as the Board of Selectmen
may require, but not less than ninety (90) days prior to the annual town
meeting, every agency and department supported wholly or in part by town
revenues, or for which a specific appropriation is or may be made shall
present to the Board of Selectmen an itemized estimate of the
expenditures to be made by that agency or department and all the
revenue, other than town appropriations, fees and contributions to be
received by it during the ensuing fiscal year. The Board of Selectmen
may direct that any of such agencies or departments furnish such
additional reports and information as the Board of Selectmen deems
advisable with respect to any of such estimates. The Board of Selectmen
shall examine such estimates and such additional reports and information
as shall be furnished by such agencies and departments. The Board of
Selectmen, after considering the financial condition of the town and the
appropriateness and amount of the proposed expenditures, may eliminate,
reduce, or increase any estimated expenditure of any agency or
departments except the Board of Education.

   6.1.2.   At such time and in such manner as the Board of Finance may
by regulation require, but not less than sixty (60) days prior to the
annual town meeting, the Board of Selectmen shall present to the Board
of Finance the itemized estimates of the expenditures to be made by the
Board of Education and the revenue, other than town appropriations, fees
and contributions to be received by the Board of Education, in the same
form as said estimates were presented to the Board of Selectmen,
together with such comments and recommendations as the Board of
Selectmen deems advisable with respect to any of such estimates. At that
time and in such manner as the Board of Finance may by regulation
require, the Board of Selectmen shall also present to the Board of
Finance the itemized estimates of the expenditures to be made by each
agency and department except the Board of Education, as adjusted by the
Board of Selectmen pursuant to Section 6.1.1. of this charter, and the
revenue, other than town appropriations, fees and contributions to be
received by each such agency and department.

   6.1.3.   The Board of Finance shall upon request afford each agency
and department an opportunity for a hearing on the proposed budget of
such agency or department, first giving notice to the Board of Selectmen
with respect to the hearing on the proposed budget of each agency and
department.

   6.1.4.   The Board of Finance shall hold one or more public hearings
concerning the proposed town budget, one of such hearings to be held not
less than fourteen (14) days before the annual town meeting, at which
hearings any person qualified to vote at the annual town meeting shall
have an opportunity to be heard. The Board of Finance may then revise
the proposed town budget as it deems advisable, and it may, by a vote of
two-thirds of its members, restore any itemized expenditures eliminated
or reduced by the Board of Selectmen. The proposed town budget may
include a contingency fund established in accordance with the general
statutes and, an appropriation to any fund for capital and non-recurring
expenditures which may be established in accordance with the general
statutes, and may provide for the payment of any part of the debts of
the town. The proposed town budget shall also include estimates of the
revenue to the town from all sources for the ensuing year, including
taxes to be raised on the last completed grand list. The Board of
Finance shall present the budget to the annual town meeting.

   6.1.5.   The Board of Finance shall post the proposed town budget on
the Town’s website not less than four (4) days before the public
hearing. It shall, before the annual town meeting, publish the proposed
town budget in accordance with law and make available copies of the
proposed town budget and any other reports prescribed by law.

   6.1.6.   The adoption of the annual town budget shall be in
accordance with the provisions of Section 7.3. of this charter.

6.2.   Laying and Collection of Taxes

   6.2.1.   Within thirty (30) days after the Board of Assessment
Appeals has completed its duties and the grand list has been completed,
or within thirty (30) days after adoption of the town budget if a
uniform fiscal year has been adopted by the town in accordance with the
General Statutes, the Board of Finance shall meet and shall lay such tax
on the last completed grand list as is required by the General Statutes.

   6.2.2.   The Tax Collector shall then collect the tax in accordance
with the General Statutes. The due date shall be July 1st.

6.3.   Special Appropriations and Transfers of Appropriations

   6.3.1.   The Board of Selectmen, when requested by any town
department and after approval by the Board of Finance, may make special
appropriations from cash surplus or any approved contingency fund in
amounts not to exceed in the aggregate in any one fiscal year, ten per
cent of the amount appropriated for such department in the current town
budget or ten thousand dollars, whichever shall be less. The Board of
Selectmen, when requested by any town department and after approval by
the Board of Finance, may also transfer unexpended balances from one
appropriation to another in accordance with the General Statutes. The
Board of Education may transfer unexpended balances from one
appropriation to another in accordance with the General Statutes.

   6.3.2.   Any request by any town department for a special
appropriation which shall exceed the amount which the Board of Selectmen
is empowered by Section 6.3.1. of this charter to appropriate for that
department in any one fiscal year, shall be acted upon by town meeting
after approval by the Board of Finance, which approval shall include the
authority, by a two-thirds vote of all its members to restore any
request eliminated or reduced by the Board of Selectmen pursuant to
Section 6.3.5. of this charter.

   6.3.3.   Special appropriations other than those from cash surplus or
any approved contingency fund may be acted upon only by a special town
meeting after approval by the Board of Finance.

   6.3.4.   Projects which are funded entirely by State, Federal, or
private grants and which do not require an appropriation of town funds
need not be approved by the Board of Finance or at a Town Meeting other
than in situations in which the acceptance of such grant has an adverse
impact on future operating budgets.

   6.3.5.   All requests for special appropriations and transfers of
unexpended funds shall be made in writing to the Board of Selectmen. The
Board of Selectmen shall, within ten (10) days after receipt thereof,
forward such requests together with such comments and recommendations as
the Board of Selectmen deems advisable, to the Board of Finance;
provided, however, that with respect to requests from departments other
than the Board of Education, the Board of Selectmen may, after
considering the financial condition of the town and the appropriateness
and amount of the request, eliminate, reduce or increase the amount of
the request after prior notices to the department making the request and
an opportunity for the department to submit such reports and information
as it deems advisable, and for that purpose may delay for a reasonable
time but not more than twenty (20) additional days the forwarding of the
request to the Board of Finance. The Board of Finance shall act on all
requests for special appropriations or transfers of unexpended funds
within thirty (30) days after receipt thereof and shall immediately
after acting advise the department making such request and the Board of
Selectmen of its action. The Board of Selectmen shall act on such
requests within ten (10) days of the earlier of (i) notice of approval
of such requests by the Board of Finance or (ii) expiration of thirty
(30) days from the date of receipt by the Board of Finance; and shall
immediately advise the department making such requests of its action.

   6.3.6.   The provisions of Section 6.3 of this charter shall not be a
limitation on the power of the town to issue bonds or other obligations
for appropriations or indebtedness in accordance with the general
statutes and Section 7.5. of this charter. The Board of Finance shall
recommend the methods for financing a capital expenditure.

6.4.   Accounting and Expenditures

   6.4.1.   The fiscal year of the town shall begin on July 1st and end
on June 30th. The fiscal year may be adjusted by town meeting action in
accordance with the General Statutes.

   6.4.2.   The system of accounts used by the town agencies and
departments shall be that prescribed by the General Statutes as
supplemented by the regulations of the Board of Finance. All regulations
of the Board of Finance shall be consistent with this charter and the
powers and duties of other town agencies and departments, and shall be
complied with by all town agencies and departments.

   6.4.3.   The Board of Finance shall provide for an annual audit of
the books and accounts of the town as required by the General Statutes.

CHAPTER 7 - TOWN MEETING

Section

   7.1   Annual and Special Town Meetings

   7.2   Organization and Procedure

   7.3   Annual Budget (Automatic Referendum)

   7.4   Special Appropriations

   7.5   Appropriations and Borrowing

   7.6   Overrule of an Ordinance Enactment

   7.7   Sale or Purchase of Real Estate

7.1.   Annual and Special Town Meetings

   7.1.1.   The annual town meeting, which shall also be the annual
budget meeting, shall be held on the second Monday in May. It may be
adjourned from time to time, including to automatic referendum as set
forth in Section 7.3 or the date may be changed by ordinance. Special
meetings shall be called by the Board of Selectmen in the manner
provided by the General Statutes whenever they deem it necessary, or on
application by persons qualified to vote in town meetings, the number of
such persons to be not less than two percent (2%) of the total electors
of the town as determined from the official list of electors most
recently filed with the Town Clerk by the Registrars of Voters.

   7.1.2   The matters which the applicants for a special town meeting
desire to be acted upon shall, if proper subjects for town meeting
action, be put in proper form for the call of the meeting and for a town
meeting resolution with the assistance of Town Counsel, and those
matters shall be the first items in the call of the meeting. The Board
of Selectmen may, at its discretion, add other matters to the call of
the meeting.

   7.1.3   Five hundred or more persons or five percent (5%) of the
total number qualified to vote in town meetings, whichever is less, may
petition the town clerk, in writing, at least twenty-four hours prior to
any town meeting, requesting that any item or items on the call of such
meeting be submitted to the persons qualified to vote in such meeting
not less than seven nor more than fourteen days thereafter, on a day to
be set by the town meeting or, if the town meeting does not set a date,
by the town selectmen, for a “Yes” or “No” vote on the voting machines.
Except as provided herein, the manner of conducting such adjourned town
meeting shall be as provided by the General Statutes.

7.2.   Organization and Procedure

   7.2.1.   The Moderator, or in his absence, the Deputy Moderator,
shall preside at town meetings. If both are absent, the meeting shall
choose a moderator. The Town Clerk or Assistant Town Clerk shall serve
as clerk. In their absence the meeting shall choose a clerk.

   7.2.2.   Electors of the town and other persons qualified by the
General Statutes, may vote at town meetings, unless otherwise provided
by this charter. Town meeting action shall be by majority vote of those
present and voting unless otherwise provided by this charter.

7.3.   Annual Budget (Automatic Referendum)

      The annual budget meeting shall be limited to a public
presentation of the town of East Lyme Budget by the Board of Finance,
Board of Selectmen and Board of Education with an opportunity for public
participation by comments and questions. After reasonable discussion,
the moderator shall adjourn the meeting to a referendum on the voting
machines. The budget resolution will be submitted to the persons
qualified to vote in a town meeting by referendum by machine vote which
shall take place on the Thursday in May which is ten days after the
annual budget meeting. At least five (5) days prior to such referendum,
the Board of Selectmen shall publish on the Town’s website and in
accordance with state statute, a notice of such referendum, setting
forth the date on which, the hours during which, and the location at
which the referendum will be held and the text of the questions as they
will appear on the voting machines.

   The text shall provide for approval/disapproval of the Budget of the
Town of East Lyme.

   1.   Shall the budget for the fiscal year July 1, ______ to June 30,
______as recommended by the Board of Finance be adopted.

         Yes          No

   Should the budget fail to be approved by a majority of those voting
thereon, the Board of Finance shall forthwith revise estimated
expenditures, without altering estimates of revenue except for
omissions, clerical errors, or revisions of revenue to be received from
the state, to arrive at revised spending levels and automatically submit
the revised budget to a referendum 14 days following the date the
initial budget referendum was defeated. The Board of Finance shall hold
at least one (1) public hearing upon five (5) days legal notice prior to
submitting the revised budget for consideration. This process shall be
repeated at two (2) week succeeding intervals until such time as the
budget is adopted.

   In the event said budget is not adopted by the third Wednesday in
June, business shall be conducted in accordance with Section 7-405 and
12-123 of the General Statutes, as amended.

7.4.   Special Appropriations

   A special appropriation or a payment into or appropriation from any
reserve fund for capital and non-recurring expenditures, requiring town
meeting approval in accordance with Section 6.3. of this charter, may be
decreased by the town meeting, but may not be increased. A town meeting
may make no special appropriation not recommended by the Board of
Finance.

7.5.   Appropriations and Borrowing

   Any request by any town department for a special appropriation which
shall exceed the amount which the Board of Selectmen is empowered by
Section 6.3. of this charter to appropriate for that department in any
one fiscal year, and any resolution authorizing the issuance of bonds or
notes shall be placed on the call of a town meeting for action thereon.

7.6.   Overrule of an Ordinance Enactment

   A special town meeting shall be called on application, as provided in
Section 3.4.3. of this charter, to consider the overrule of an ordinance
enactment. Two hundred electors shall constitute a quorum at such
special town meeting and such ordinance shall be overruled, void, and of
no effect if a majority of the electors voting at such special town
meeting vote to overrule such ordinance.

7.7.   Sale or Purchase of Real Estate

   The sale of real estate or the purchase of real estate the price of
which is over ten thousand dollars, shall require approval of a town
meeting.

CHAPTER 8 - TRANSITION AND MISCELLANEOUS

Section

   8.1   Effective Date

   8.2   Transition

   8.3   Financial Interest Prohibited

   8.4   Amendments to the Charter

   8.5   Savings Clause

8.1.   Effective Date

   The effective date of this charter shall be December 7, 2023.

8.2.   Transition

   8.2.1.   During the transition period, all elective terms that expire
in October of any year shall, unless otherwise specified in Section 8.2.
of this charter, be extended to the first Monday in December of that
year, when their successors, who have been elected in November of that
year, will take office.

   8.2.2.   The terms of the Board of Selectmen elected at the town
election in October 1963 shall be extended until the first Monday in
December 1965 and the members shall have only those powers and duties
which they had prior to the adoption of this charter.

   8.2.3.   The term of the Assessor holding office on the effective
date of this charter shall continue until the first Monday of October
1966.

   8.2.4.   The three terms of the Board of Education that expire in
October 1965 shall be extended until the first Monday in December 1967.
One additional member shall be elected in November 1965 for a two year
term, to expire on the first Monday in December 1967. The three terms
that expire in October 1967 shall be extended until the first Monday in
December 1967. The seven terms that expire in December 1967 shall be
filled in the following manner: in November 1967, five members shall be
elected for a four-year term and two members for a two-year term. The
three terms that expire in October 1969 shall be extended to the first
Monday in December 1969. The five terms that expire in December 1969
shall be filled by election in November 1969 for four-year terms.

   8.2.5.   The two terms of the Board of Finance that expire in October
1965 shall be extended to the first Monday in December 1965 and shall be
filled in the election in November 1965 in the following manner: one
member shall be elected for a four-year term and one member for a
two-year term. The two terms that expire in October 1967 shall be
extended to the first Monday in December 1967. The three terms that
expire in December 1967 shall be filled in the election in November 1967
by election for four-year terms. The two terms that expire in October
1969 shall be extended to the first Monday in December 1969. The three
terms that expire in December 1969 shall be filled in the election in
November 1969 for four-year terms.

   8.2.6.   The one term of the Board of Assessment Appeals that expires
in October 1965 shall be extended to the first Monday in December 1967.
The two terms which expire in October 1967 shall be extended to the
first Monday in December 1967. All terms which expire in December 1967
shall be filled by election in November 1967 for four-year terms.

   8.2.7.   Upon the increase of the membership of the Board of
Assessment Appeals to five members, the Board of Selectmen shall appoint
two additional members to serve until the first Monday of December 1991.
At the election in November 1991 all five terms shall be filled, the two
terms which were filled by the Board of Selectmen shall be filled for
two-year terms and the three other terms shall be filled for four-year
terms. Upon the expiration of each of the terms thereafter, it shall be
filled for a four-year term.

   8.2.8.   The terms of the Zoning Commission and the terms of the
Planning Commission shall each be filled in the following manner: the
one term expiring in October 1965 shall be extended to the first Monday
in December 1965 and shall be filled by election in November 1965 for a
four-year term. One additional member shall be elected in November 1965
for a two-year term. The one term expiring in October 1966 shall be
extended to the first Monday in December 1967. The one term expiring in
October 1967 shall be extended to the first Monday in December 1967. The
three terms that expire in December 1967 shall be filled by election in
November 1967 for four-year terms. The term expiring in October 1968
shall be extended to the first Monday in December 1969. The term that
expires in October 1969 shall be extended to the first Monday in
December 1969. The three terms that expire in December 1969 shall be
filled by election in November 1969 for four-year terms.

   8.2.9.   The terms of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filled by
appointment in the following manner: the term expiring at the annual
town meeting in 1965 shall be extended to January 1966. The term
expiring in January 1966 shall be filled by appointment to January 1968.
The term expiring at the annual town meeting in 1966 shall be filled by
appointment to January 1968. The term expiring at the annual town
meeting in 1967 shall be extended to January 1968. All terms expiring in
January 1968 shall be filled by appointment for four years. The
five-year term that expires at the annual town meeting in 1969 shall be
extended to January 1970. The terms expiring in January 1970 shall be
filled by appointment for four years.

   8.2.10   All terms of the Alternate Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
filled by appointment in the following manner: the term expiring at the
annual town meeting in 1965 shall be extended to January 1966. The term
expiring in January 1966 shall be filled by appointment for four years.
The terms expiring at the annual town meetings in 1966 and 1967 shall be
extended to January 1968. The terms expiring in January 1968 shall be
filled by appointment for four years.

   8.2.11.   All terms of the Building Code Board of Appeals shall be
filled by appointment in the following manner: the term expiring in 1966
shall be filled by appointment to January 1968: The term expiring in
1967 shall be extended to January 1968. All terms expiring in January
1968 shall be filled by appointment for four years. The term expiring in
1968 shall be filled by appointment to January 1970. The term expiring
in 1969 shall be extended to January 1970. All terms expiring in January
1970 shall be filled by appointment for four years.

   8.2.12.   All terms of the Water Commission shall be filled by
appointment in the following manner: the term expiring at the annual
town meeting in 1965 shall be extended to January 1966 and shall be
filled by appointment for four years. The terms expiring at the annual
town meetings in 1966 and 1967 shall be extended to January 1968. The
terms expiring in January 1968 shall be filled by appointment for four
years.

   8.2.13.   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall be appointed in
the following manner: in January 1966, three terms shall be filled by
appointment for two years and four terms shall be filled by appointment
for four years. The three terms expiring in January 1968 shall be filled
by appointment for four years.

8.3.   Financial Interest Prohibited

   No town officer shall derive any financial benefit from any
transaction with the board of which he is a member or with the office
which he holds, unless he disqualifies himself from discussion and
decision thereon; if such officer is not a member of a board, he shall
notify in writing the Board of Selectmen of such benefit.

8.4.   Amendments to the Charter

   This charter may be amended at any time in the manner prescribed by
the General Statutes. Future Charter revisions shall include a revision
record of changes. In addition, commencing in 2033 and decennially
thereafter, the Board of Selectmen shall vote to determine whether to
appoint a Charter Revision Commission in accordance with the Connecticut
General Statutes.

8.5.   Saving Clause

   If any section of this charter shall be held invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such invalidation shall not affect the remainder
of this charter nor the context in which such section so held invalid
may appear, except to the extent that an entire section or part of
section may be inseparably connected in meaning and effect with the
section or part of section to which such invalidation shall directly
apply.

TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS

   Chapter

      10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS

CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section

   10.01   Title of code

   10.02   Interpretation

   10.03   Application to future ordinances

   10.04   Captions

   10.05   Definitions

   10.06   Rules of interpretation

   10.07   Severability

   10.08   Reference to other sections

   10.09   Reference to offices

   10.10   Errors and omissions

   10.11   Official time

   10.12   Reasonable time

   10.13   Continuation of existing law; ordinances repealed

   10.14   Ordinances unaffected

   10.15   Effective date of ordinances

   10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance

   10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code

   10.18   Section histories; statutory references

 

   10.99   General penalty

§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.

   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of East Lyme
shall be designated as the Code of East Lyme and may be so cited.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.

   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern
the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.

   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this
code unless otherwise specifically provided.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.

   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall
not be deemed a part of the text of any section.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.

   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and
usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.

   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

      BOARD or BOARD OF SELECTMEN. The governing body of the Town of
East Lyme subject to the limitations of the East Lyme Charter.

      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.

      CONN. GEN. STAT. or GENERAL STATUTES. The revision of 1958 of the
General Statutes of the State of Connecticut and all amendments thereto.

      COUNTY. New London County, Connecticut.

      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.

      MONTH. A calendar month.

      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath, and in these cases the words SWEAR and
SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.

      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer,
office, employee, commission or department of the municipality unless
the context clearly requires otherwise.

      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner,
joint owner, with right of survivorship, tenant in common, tenant in
partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or
land.

      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used
in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or
WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the
partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.

      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.

      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.

      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street, usually lying on either side
thereof, between the curb and the adjacent property line, intended for
the use of pedestrians.

      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot
write.

      STATE. The State of Connecticut.

      STREET. Includes avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys,
lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto, and all other
public thoroughfares in the town and means all that part thereof from
the property line of the premises abutting thereon.

      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of
the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.

      TENANT, OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, mean any person
who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.

      TOWN. The Town of East Lyme, Connecticut.

      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether
by printing or otherwise.

      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to
the words YEAR OF OUR LORD.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.

   The construction of all ordinances of the municipality shall be by
the following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the
intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.

   (A)   And or or. Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or,” if the sense requires it.

   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act
to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the
principal, the requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.

   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the
masculine gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter
genders; words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in
the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the present
tense shall include the future, if applicable.

   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so
limited.

   (E)   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a
majority of the persons or officers unless otherwise specifically
provided.

   (F)   If any definition herein conflicts with a definition in the
town’s planning, zoning, inland wetlands, water and sewer or other
regulations, the definition in the regulation shall control.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.

   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its
application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect other provisions that can be given effect
without the invalid provision or application.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.

   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as
subsequently amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the
subject matter is changed or materially altered by the amendment or
revision.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.

   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to
any office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective
of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of the
functionary.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.

   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to
which no meaning can be attached; or the use of a word or words when
another word or words was clearly intended to express the intent, the
spelling shall be corrected and the word or words supplied, omitted or
substituted as will conform with the manifest intention, and the
provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct words were
contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall be
made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent
of the error.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.

   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws,
shall be the official time within the municipality for the transaction
of all municipal business.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.

   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable
time or notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a
prompt performance of the act or the giving of the notice.

   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If
the last day is Sunday, it shall be excluded.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.13 CONTINUATION OF EXISTING LAW; ORDINANCES REPEALED.

   (A)   The provisions appearing in this code, insofar as they are the
same as those of the ordinances existing at the time of the adoption of
this code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new
enactments.

   (B)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all
of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein
enumerated and embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects
treated by this code shall be deemed repealed from and after the
effective date of this code.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.

   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain
in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.

   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring
publication shall take effect from and after the due publication
thereof, unless otherwise expressly provided.

   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.

   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be
repealed or modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of
an ordinance thus repealed or modified shall continue in force until the
due publication of the ordinance repealing or modifying it when
publication is required to give effect thereto, unless otherwise
expressly provided.

   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance
previous to its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or
discharged, but may be prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if
the ordinance had continued in force unless it is otherwise expressly
provided.

   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or
provision shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to
revive the former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly
provided.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.

   (A)   If the Board of Selectmen shall desire to amend any existing
chapter or section of this code, the chapter or section shall be
specifically repealed and a new chapter or section, containing the
desired amendment, substituted in its place.

   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement
of this code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition
to the indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed
ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the
ordinance.

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.

   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and
passage date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any,
are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. passed
5-13-1960; Ord. passed 1-1-1970; Ord. passed 1-1-1980; Ord. passed
1-1-1985)

   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this
indicates that the text of the section reads substantially the same as
the statute. Example: (Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-340) (Ord. passed 1-17-1980;
Ord. passed 1-1-1985)

      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should
refer to that statute for further information. Example:

      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.

         This municipality shall make available to any person for
inspection or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by
state law.

      Statutory reference:

         Inspection of public records, see Conn. Gen. Stat. § 1-19

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.

   (A)   Whenever in this code, or in any other ordinance, rule or
regulation promulgated by any officer or agency of the town under
authority vested in him, her or it by law or ordinance, any act is
prohibited or declared to be unlawful, or the doing of any act is
required, or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and
no specific penalty, including a referral to community court, is
provided therefor either by this code or state law, the violation of any
provision of this code, or any other ordinance, rule or regulation shall
be punished by a fine not exceeding $100.

   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation of the town continues shall constitute a separate offense.

Statutory reference:

   Maximum statutory penalty for ordinance violations, see Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 7-148(c)(10)(A)

(Res. passed 4-17-2019)

TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION

   Chapter

      30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS

      31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS

      32.   LAW ENFORCEMENT

      33.   ELECTIONS

      34.   TAXATION

      35.   TOWN POLICIES

CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section

General Provisions

   30.01   Resolution authorizing town officials to covenant and agree
on behalf of the town to comply with the Securities and Exchange
Commission Exchange Act Rule 15c2-12

   30.02   Setting date for annual town meeting

   30.03   Salary for Town Clerk

   30.04   Assessor

   30.05   Restriction imposed on salaried town officials and employees

Fees

   30.20   Establishing fees for use of geographic information system

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 30.01 RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING TOWN OFFICIALS TO COVENANT AND AGREE ON
BEHALF OF THE TOWN TO COMPLY WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
EXCHANGE ACT RULE 15c2-12.

   The First Selectman, the Director of Finance, and the Town Treasurer,
or any two of them, are hereby authorized, on behalf of the town, to
enter into agreements or otherwise covenant for the benefit of
bondholders to provide information on an annual or other periodic basis
to nationally recognized municipal securities information repositories
or state based information repositories (the “repositories”) and to
provide notices to the repositories of material events as enumerated in
Securities and Exchange Commission Exchange Act Rule 15c2-12 (“Rule
15c2-12”), as amended, as may be necessary, appropriate or desirable to
effect the sale of the bonds and notices heretofore or hereafter
authorized to be issued by the town. Any agreements or representations
to provide information to repositories made prior hereto are hereby
confirmed, ratified and approved. The town may also provide for
agreements, representations or covenants to be made on behalf of the
town to comply with Rule 15c2-12 in bond authorizations as may
hereinafter be enacted.

(Res. passed 6-21-1995)

§ 30.02 SETTING DATE FOR ANNUAL TOWN MEETING.

   The annual town meeting and the annual budget meeting shall be the
second Monday in May each year, commencing with the annual town meeting
to be held May 8, 1978 for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 1978.

(Ord. passed 12-5-1977)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 13, page 38

§ 30.03 SALARY FOR TOWN CLERK.

   (A)   The Town Clerk shall receive a salary in lieu of all fees and
other compensation provided for in the General Statutes, commencing
September 1, 1976.

   (B)   The salary of the Town Clerk shall be fixed by the Board of
Selectmen, subject to necessary appropriation.

   (C)   Commencing September 1, 1976, all fees and other compensation
which the General Statutes provide should be paid to the Town Clerk,
shall be collected by the Town Clerk and deposited in the General Fund
of the town.

(Ord. passed 9-1-1976)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 272

§ 30.04 ASSESSOR.

   House Bill No. 102 of the General Assembly of the state, which Bill
provides for the appointment of an Assessor and for the filing of
assessment lists in the town, is accepted.

(Res. passed 6-7-1951)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 6, page 295

§ 30.05 RESTRICTION IMPOSED ON SALARIED TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.

   No salaried town official or employee shall receive from the town
compensation for the use of equipment owned by said official or employee
in town work or sale of material.

(Ord. passed 9-26-1932)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 5, page 38

FEES

§ 30.20 ESTABLISHING FEES FOR USE OF GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM.

   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 1-212
and 7-148s, the following schedule of fees is established for the town’s
geographic information system data:

Digital data in CD format including the following layers:

$150

   Parcels w/CAMA data

   Zoning

   Street centerlines-with address points

   5 ft. contours (developed from 2004 DEP LIDAR)

Paper maps (color)

8-1/2 x 11

11 x 17

24 x 36

36 x 72

   Published map

$2

$5

$15

$45

   Custom map - $10/layer plus

$2

$5

$15

$45

Prints from Public Access Terminal

8-1/2 x 11

11 x 17

24 x 36

36 x 72

   Black and white

$0.50

$1

N/A

N/A

   Color

$2

$5

N/A

N/A

Certification of above documents

$1/first page, $0.50/additional pages*

Shipping and handling (if applicable)

$10

* Fee of $0.50 per additional page beyond first page applies to
multi-page documents. Each separate map shall constitute a new document
subject to the $1 per first page fee for certification.

 

   (B)   Fees shall be paid at the time a request for data is submitted.

(Ord. passed 7-1-2008; Ord. passed 3-19-2025)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 22, page 787

CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS

Section

General Provisions

   31.01   Commission for the Conservation of Natural Resources

   31.02   Niantic River Gateway Commission

   31.03   Route 11 Greenway Authority Commission

   31.04   Town Building Committee

   31.05   Board of Education; election of members

   31.06   Civil Preparedness Agency

   31.07   Commission on Aging

   31.08   Brookside Farm Museum Commission

   31.09   Board of Finance

   31.10   Youth, Family and Human Services Commission

   31.11   Fair Rent Commission

School Building Committees

   31.25   School Building Committee (East Lyme Elementary Schools)

   31.26   School Building Committee (East Lyme Middle School)

   31.27   School Building Committee (Lillie B. Haynes Elementary School
and East Lyme High School)

Zoning and Planning Commissions

   31.40   Designating Zoning Commission as Aquifer Protection Agency

   31.41   Providing for election of alternate members of Zoning
Commission

   31.42   Providing for election of alternate members of Planning
Commission

Other Boards

   31.55   Pension Board

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 31.01 COMMISSION FOR THE CONSERVATION OF NATURAL RESOURCES.

   (A)   Effective July 1, 2008, there is constituted a five member
Commission for the Conservation of Natural Resources, with all the
authority, powers and responsibilities of local conservation commissions
as set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-131a, as amended from time to time.

   (B)   The members of the Commission shall be appointed in the
following manner: three terms shall be filled by appointment until the
first Monday of January, 2010, at which time they shall be filled by
appointment for four years. Two terms shall be filled by appointment
until the first Monday of January, 2012, at which time they will be
filled by appointment for four years.

   (C)   There shall be two alternate members of the Commission. The
term of one alternate member shall be filled by appointment until the
first Monday of January, 2010, at which time it shall be filled by
appointment for four years. The term of the other alternate member shall
be filled by appointment until the first Monday of January, 2012, at
which time it will be filled by appointment for four years. Such
alternate members shall, when seated, have all the powers and duties of
a member of the Commission.

(Ord. passed 7-1-2008)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 22, page 787A

§ 31.02 NIANTIC RIVER GATEWAY COMMISSION.

   (A)   As authorized by Public Act 87-512 of the Connecticut General
Assembly, and subject to a final determination by the Board of
Selectmen, pursuant to § 4(b) of said Act as to whether the town shall
be governed by the provisions of said Act, the town hereby acts to
establish the Niantic River Gateway Commission.

   (B)   The Niantic River Gateway Commission shall have the authority
and responsibility provided for said Commission in said Act.

   (C)   There shall be six members of said Commission, three of whom
shall be electors of the town who shall be appointed by the Board of
Selectmen. The East Lyme members shall be appointed within 60 days from
the date that the Town First Selectman receives notice from the
Waterford First Selectman that the Town of Waterford has adopted an
ordinance establishing the Commission. The East Lyme members shall be
appointed for terms to expire on the first Monday in January of the next
even-numbered year following their appointment. Upon the expiration of
said terms, one member shall be appointed for a term of two years, and
two members shall be appointed for terms of four years. Thereafter, each
of said terms shall be filled upon its expiration for four years. Any
vacancy that may from time to time occur among East Lyme members shall
be filled by the Board of Selectmen.

   (D)   The town reserves the right to vote not to be governed by the
provisions of said Act in accordance with § 7 of this Act.

(Ord. passed 10-21-1987; Ord. passed 1-22-2001)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 16, page 123

   TM Volume 22, page 60

§ 31.03 ROUTE 11 GREENWAY AUTHORITY COMMISSION.

   (A)   Pursuant to § 40 of Public Act No. 00-148, the town hereby
establishes a Route 11 Greenway Authority Commission, which shall be
deemed to be established at such time as the last of the four towns of
East Lyme, Montville, Salem and Waterford has adopted an ordinance
consistent with Public Act 00-148, § 40, subsections (a), (b) and (c).

   (B)   The membership of said commission shall consist of the
Commissioner of Environmental Protection or said Commissioner’s
designee, the Commissioner of Transportation, or said commissioner’s
designee, a member and alternate member from each of the towns of East
Lyme, Montville, Salem and Waterford, appointed by the First Selectman
of said towns, and a member and alternate member of the Southeastern
Connecticut Council of Governments appointed by said agency.

   (C)   Each member and alternate member of the Commission shall serve
for a term of two years and until such member’s successor is appointed
and has qualified. Such appointments shall take effect when the last of
the four towns has adopted an enabling ordinance. An alternate member
shall be empowered to vote on said Commission in the absence of the
member for whom such person is an alternate. The initial terms of
members shall commence when the last of the four towns adopting such
ordinance has appointed a member and an alternate member. Any vacancy on
the Commission shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment for the balance of the unexpired term. No appointed member
shall receive any compensation for service on said commission. Said
Commission shall elect from its members a Chairperson and such other
officers as it deems necessary and shall establish its own rules and
procedure.

   (D)   The Commission shall be an autonomous body within the
Department of Transportation for administrative purposes only. The
Commission may employ experts and such other assistants as it judges
necessary and may accept funds from any source. Notwithstanding any
other provision of the General Statutes, any funds appropriated to the
Commission received by the Commission from any other source shall be
held in the custody of the Commission and expended by the Commission for
the purposes set forth in § 40 of Public Act No. 00-148.

   (E)   The Commissioner of Environmental Protection and the
Commissioner of Transportation, not later than 60 days after the
effective date of the enabling ordinance adopted by the last of the four
towns to adopt such an ordinance, shall call a meeting of the Commission
which shall, within 90 days thereafter:

      (1)   Hold public hearings for the purpose of developing standards
for:

         (a)   Defining the boundaries of the Route 11 Greenway;

         (b)   Planning the design, the construction, maintenance and
management of the Route 11 Greenway trail system and intermodal
transportation access system;

         (c)   Identifying and prioritizing land that should be added to
the Route 11 Greenway;

         (d)   Recommending land use within the Route 11 Greenway; and

         (e)   Acquiring land and securing conservation easements for
the Route 11 Greenway, except that nothing in the Act shall be construed
to prohibit the acquisition of land within the Route 11 Greenway by a
municipality.

      (2)   Establish bylaws by which the Commission shall:

         (a)   Conduct its meetings, including a provision specifying
that no action by the Commission shall be effective except by the
concurring votes of at least four members;

         (b)   Protect and preserve lands under its custody;

         (c)   Supervise staff;

         (d)   Maintain its records; and

         (e)   Report to the General Assembly, as required by § 40 of
Public Act No. 00-148.

   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of § 40 of Public Act No.
00-148 or the General Statutes, the Commission may:

      (1)   Acquire or convey by purchase, gift, lease, devise, exchange
or otherwise, any land or interest therein including, but not limited
to, conservation easements, located wholly or partly in the conservation
zone, provided such acquisition does not utilize funds furnished by the
state;

      (2)   Transfer, with the approval of the Commissioner, any land or
interest therein to the state with or without consideration, provided
any funds received therefore shall not be deemed funds furnished by the
state for purposes of this section; and

      (3)   Contribute or transfer funds to, and enter into agreements
with, land trusts or other conservation organizations, to carry out the
purposes of § 40 of Public Act No. 00-148.

   (G)   The Commission shall report to the General Assembly, on or
before February 15 annually, on its activities of the preceding year and
on its finances.

   (H)   The existence of the Commission shall terminate at such time as
all of its member towns have withdrawn or is abolished by the General
Assembly.

(Ord. passed 10-4-2000)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 22, page 54

§ 31.04 TOWN BUILDING COMMITTEE.

   (A)   There is constituted a seven member Town Building Committee
which, as instructed and to the extent authorized by the Board of
Selectmen, is empowered to obtain plans and cost estimates for new town
buildings and additions to existing town buildings, other than school
buildings, including such furnishings and equipment as may be required,
and to enter into such contracts and expend such funds as may be
hereafter authorized and appropriated for such purposes.

      (1)   As instructed and to the extent authorized by the Board of
Education, the committee is empowered to obtain plans and cost estimates
for new school facilities, and additions, alterations and major repairs
to existing school facilities, including such furnishings and equipment
as may be required, and to enter into such contracts and expend such
funds as may be authorized and appropriated for such purposes. The
Superintendent of Schools shall be an ex officio member without vote of
the Committee when it is acting under the instructions and with the
authorization of the Board of Education.

      (2)   Two residents of the Town of Salem, appointed by the Salem
Board of Selectmen, shall be ex officio members without vote of the
Committee when it is acting under the instructions and with the
authorization of the Board of Education on the East Lyme High School
expansion and improvement project.

   (B)   Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Board of
Selectmen in the following manner.

      (1)   All seven terms shall be filled by appointment within 30
days from the effective date hereof, four terms to expire on the first
Monday of January, 1970 and three terms to expire on the first Monday of
January, 1972.

      (2)   All said terms shall be filled upon their expiration for
four years.

(Ord. passed 7-2-1968; Ord. passed 7-1-1977; Ord. passed 4-2-1997)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 10, page 40, 59; TM Volume 12, page 341, Amended; TM Volume
21, page 376, Amended

§ 31.05 BOARD OF EDUCATION; ELECTION OF MEMBERS.

   (A)   The provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 9-204b are adopted.

   (B)   Subject to the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 9-167a
regarding minority representation, whether the number of members to be
elected to the Board of Education at any election is odd or even, any
elector may vote for all of that number and the persons receiving the
greatest number of votes shall be elected.

   (C)   Each political party shall have the right to nominate as many
persons as there are vacancies on the Board of Education, and those
names shall be placed upon the ballot.

(Ord. effective 8-1-1995)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 23

§ 31.06 CIVIL PREPAREDNESS AGENCY.

   (A)   There is constituted a Civil Emergency Management Agency which
shall perform such civil preparedness functions in the town as the State
Director of Emergency Management prescribed, and shall perform such
functions outside the town as are prescribed by the State Emergency
Management Plan and Program and by the terms of any mutual aid
agreements to which the town is a party.

   (B)   Each Selectman shall be a member of the Agency. The Board of
Selectmen may appoint additional members in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 4 of the Charter.

   (C)   The Board of Selectmen shall appoint a Town Director of
Emergency Management for a term to expire on the first Monday of
January, 1980. Said term shall be filled upon expiration for four years.

   (D)   The Director shall be responsible for the organization,
administration and operation of the Agency, subject to the direction and
control of the State Director, and subject to the provisions of division
(E) below. He or she may, with the approval of the State Director,
collaborate with other public and private agencies within the state and
develop or cause to be developed mutual aid agreements for civil
preparedness aid and assistance in case of disaster too great to be
dealt with unassisted. He or she may, with the approval of the State
Director, enter into such mutual aid agreements with civil preparedness
agencies or organizations in other states. Such agreements shall be
consistent with the State Emergency Preparedness Plan and Program and,
in time of emergency, the Agency shall render assistance in accordance
with the provisions of such agreements to which it is a party unless
otherwise ordered by the State Director.

   (E)   In the event of a serious disaster or a sudden emergency, the
Agency shall be under the direction and supervision of the First
Selectman, and the Director shall act as his or her advisor and Chief of
Staff. In that event, the First Selectman may declare a state of
emergency for the town if, in his or her opinion, such a declaration is
necessary, whereupon he or she shall immediately call an emergency
meeting of the Board of Selectmen which shall confirm or revoke the
declaration. In such an event, the First Selectman is empowered to apply
to the state and the federal government for disaster assistance.

(Ord. passed 8-15-1979; Ord. passed 12-19-1988)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 13, page 249; TM Volume 16, page 298, Amended

§ 31.07 COMMISSION ON AGING.

   (A)   There is constituted a seven member Commission on Aging, which
shall cooperate with the Connecticut Commission on Aging, the Area
Agency on Aging and other agencies as appropriate in assisting the
elderly persons of the town in those matters which distinctively relate
to elderly persons.

   (B)   The Commission on Aging shall:

      (1)   Review and analyze the needs and conditions of the elderly
persons of the town in relation to housing, nutrition, employment,
health, recreation, social services, transportation and other matters
and problems with the jurisdiction of the Commission;

      (2)   Plan, coordinate, develop and implement programs to meet the
needs and to improve the conditions of the elderly persons of the town,
upon its own initiative or on the recommendations of the Senior Citizen
Administration; and

      (3)   Through the Senior Citizen Administrator and others, as
necessary, provide coordination of such plans and programs among all
related services.

   (C)   The terms of the members shall be for four years. Three terms
shall expire on the first Monday of January, 1986 and four terms shall
expire on the first Monday of January, 1988.

   (D)   The First Selectman shall appoint a Senior Citizen
Administrator who shall be the Municipal Agent on Aging for the town.

      (1)   The Senior Citizen Administrator shall serve for a term of
two years, to expire on the first Monday of January in even-numbered
years.

      (2)   The Senior Citizen Administrator shall be under the
administrative control of the First Selectman.

   (E)   The Senior Citizen Administrator shall:

      (1)   Serve as an ex officio member of the Commission on Aging;

      (2)   Disseminate information to the elderly and assist them in
learning about the community resources available to them, and publicize
such resources and benefits;

      (3)   Assist the elderly in applying for federal and other grants
and benefits available to the elderly;

      (4)   Make recommendations to the Commission on Aging concerning
needs and conditions of the elderly in relation to housing, nutrition,
employment, health, recreation, social services, transportation and
other matters of concern to the elderly;

      (5)   Make recommendations to the Commission on Aging for plans
and implementation of programs to meet the needs and to improve the
conditions of the elderly;

      (6)   Coordinate and supervise the implementation of
Commission-approved plans and programs, including the supervision of the
senior citizen bus drivers, office personnel, other related personnel
who are under the jurisdiction of the Administrator and volunteers
contributing time and resources to such plans and programs;

      (7)   Administer grant and benefit programs;

      (8)   Work with the Commission to prepare the Commission budget;

      (9)   Submit written reports as required, and cooperate with the
Chairperson of the Commission in writing the Annual Report to be
submitted to the Board of Selectmen, summarizing the year’s plans,
activities and recommendations for the future;

      (10)   Develop and coordinate media releases;

      (11)   Act as liaison between the town and the Senior Citizen’s
Club;

      (12)   Develop and implement programs with other agencies related
to senior citizens;

      (13)   Remain accessible to the town’s senior citizens; and

      (14)   Attend meeting and training sessions related to the duties
herein described.

(Ord. passed 5-15-1985)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 15, page 167

§ 31.08 BROOKSIDE FARM MUSEUM COMMISSION.

   (A)   The responsibility for the management, control, restoration and
repair of the Smith-Harris House and the land and improvements
appurtenant thereto, is hereby vested in the Brookside Farm Museum
Commission.

   (B)   The Brookside Farm Museum Commission is authorized to enter
into agreements for the use of the property, and to set reasonable fees
therefor.

   (C)   There shall be seven members of the Commission who shall be
appointed by the Board of Selectmen in the following manner.

      (1)   All seven terms shall be filled by appointment within 30
days from the effective date of this section, four terms to expire on
the first Monday of January, 1980 and three terms to expire on the first
Monday of January, 1982.

      (2)   Each of said terms shall be filled upon its expiration for
four years.

(Ord. passed 3-28-1978; Ord. passed 6-8-2018)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 13, page 101

§ 31.09 BOARD OF FINANCE.

   The town, pursuant to the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 28,
Revised of 1930, as amended, establish a Board of Finance in said town
with all the rights and powers conferred, and duties and obligations
imposed by the General Statutes upon Boards of Finance.

(Res. passed 3-3-1947)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 6, page 94

§ 31.10 YOUTH, FAMILY AND HUMAN SERVICES COMMISSION.

   (A)   Authority. Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. Ch. 164, § 10-19m, as
may be amended from time to time, there is hereby established a Youth,
Family and Human Services Commission for the Town of East Lyme.

   (B)   Purpose. The Commission shall act as an advisory board to the
Board of Selectmen and shall be responsible for providing outreach,
community education, and services to meet the needs of youth in the Town
of East Lyme, Salem students enrolled at East Lyme High School, and
families and individuals in the Town of East Lyme from youth to senior
citizens.

   (C)   Duties. The Commission will be responsible for receiving and
reviewing youth and social services program reports to identify issues
and trends and make recommendations. The Commission shall perform
community outreach, seek potential partnerships for the Youth, Family
and Human Services Program and provide services and programs as needed.
The Commission shall distribute Youth, Family and Human Services Program
materials to the community and work to identify youth, families, senior
citizens, and individuals in need.

   (D)   Commission membership. The Commission shall be composed of
seven members appointed by the Board of Selectmen, who shall serve for a
four-year term, until the first Monday in January 2028. Thereafter, the
Commission shall be composed of seven members appointed by the Board of
Selectmen, who shall serve for a four-year term. Said appointees shall
all be Town of East Lyme resident electors and include at least one
representative from the school system, Police Department, a private
youth-serving agency, a youth under the age of 21 at the time of
appointment, a senior citizen, and a community-at-large member. In
addition, a non-voting member of the Town of Salem and the Director of
the Youth, Family and Human Services Commission shall act as ex officio
members. At least one-third of the total membership shall be individuals
who are interested in youth services and who receive less than 50% of
their income by delivering services to youth.

   (E)   Terms. The terms of the members of the Commission shall be four
years. In 2024, three members shall be appointed for terms that expire
on the first Monday of January, 2028 and four members shall be appointed
for terms that expire on the first Monday of January, 2030. A member
appointed in 2025 shall have a term expiring on the first Monday of
January 2030.

(Ord. passed 11-15-23; Ord. passed 3-19-2025)

§ 31.11 FAIR RENT COMMISSION.

   (A)   Creation of a Fair Rent Commission.

      (1)   Pursuant to and in conformity with Conn. Gen. Stat. §§
7-148b through 7-l48f, 47a-20 and 47a-23c, there is hereby created a
Fair Rent Commission (“Commission”) for the purpose of controlling and
eliminating excessive rental charges for housing accommodations within
the town of East Lyme, and to carry out the purposes, duties,
responsibilities and all provisions of the above described sections and
any other sections of the statutes, as they may be amended from time to
time, pertaining to fair rent commissions.

      (2)   (a)   The Commission shall consist of five members and three
alternates, all of whom shall be resident electors of the Town of East
Lyme. Of the five regular members, at least one shall be a residential
landlord and one shall be a residential tenant. Among the alternate
members, at least one shall be a residential landlord and one shall be a
residential tenant.

         (b)   The members and alternates shall be appointed by the East
Lyme Board of Selectman. A quorum shall consist of three members or
seated alternates. Members of the commission shall serve without
compensation.

      (3)   Members of the Commission shall be appointed for staggered
terms of three for four years, two for two years and thereafter all
appointments shall be for four years. Vacancies on the Commission shall
be filled, within a reasonable time, in the manner of original
appointment for the unexpired portion of the term. Any member of the
Commission may be reappointed in the manner of the original appointment.
In the appointment of Commission members, minority representation rules
shall be followed.

   (B)   Powers of the Commission. The Commission's powers shall include
the power to:

      (1)   Receive complaints, inquiries, and other communications
concerning alleged excessive rental charges and alleged violations,
including retaliation, of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-148b to 7-148f,
inclusive, 47a-20, 21-80a, and 47a-23c in housing accommodations, except
those accommodations rented on a seasonal basis, within its
jurisdiction, which jurisdiction shall include mobile manufactured homes
and mobile manufactured home park lots. “Seasonal basis” means housing
accommodations rented for a period or periods aggregating not more than
120 days in any one calendar year. “Rental charge” includes any fee or
charge in addition to rent that is imposed or sought to be imposed upon
a tenant by a landlord, and includes any charge that is already in
effect;

      (2)   Make such studies and investigations regarding rental
housing within the town as are appropriate to carry out the duties and
responsibilities delegated hereunder, and subject to the terms,
limitations and conditions set forth herein;

      (3)   Conduct hearings on complaints or requests for investigation
submitted to it by any landlord or tenant, subject to the terms,
limitations and conditions as set forth herein;

      (4)   Compel the attendance of persons at hearings, issue
subpoenas and administer oaths, issue orders and continue, review,
amend, terminate or suspend any of its orders and decisions;

      (5)   Determine, after a hearing as set forth herein, whether or
not the rent for any housing accommodation is so excessive as to be
harsh and unconscionable;

      (6)   Determine, after a hearing as set forth herein, whether the
housing accommodation in question fails to comply with any municipal
ordinance or state statute or regulation relating to health and safety;

      (7)   Determine, after a hearing as set forth herein, whether a
landlord has engaged in retaliation in violation of division (F) below
and make such orders as are authorized herein;

      (8)   Order a reduction of any excessive rent to an amount which
is fair and equitable, and make such other orders as are authorized
herein;

      (9)   Order the suspension or reduction of further payment of rent
by the tenant until such time as the landlord makes the necessary
changes, repairs or installations so as to bring such housing
accommodation into compliance with any municipal ordinance or state
statute or regulation relating to health and safety;

      (10)   Establish an escrow account with a local bank or financial
institution into which it shall deposit all rent charges or other funds
paid to it pursuant to division (E) herein; and

      (11)   Carry out all other provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§
7-148b to 7-148f, inclusive, 47a-20, 21-80a and 47a-23c as now existing
and as hereinafter amended, as they apply to fair rent commissions.

   (C)   Determination of excessive rent.

      (1)   (a)   In determining whether a rental charge or a proposed
increase in a rental charge is so excessive, with due regard to all the
circumstances, as to be harsh and unconscionable, the Commission shall
consider such of the following circumstances as are applicable to the
type of accommodation:

            1.   The rents charged for the same number of rooms in other
housing accommodations in the same and in other areas of the
municipality;

            2.   The sanitary conditions existing in the housing
accommodations in question;

            3.   The number of bathtubs or showers, flush waste closets,
kitchen sinks and lavatory basins available to the occupants thereof;

            4.   Services, furniture, furnishings and equipment supplied
therein;

            5.   The size and number of bedrooms contained therein;

            6.   Repairs necessary to make such accommodations
reasonably livable for the occupants accommodated therein;

            7.   The amount of taxes and reasonable overhead expenses
thereof;

            8.   Whether the accommodations are in compliance with the
ordinances of the town and the General Statutes of the State of
Connecticut relating to health and safety;

            9.   The income of the petitioner and the availability of
accommodations;

            10.   The availability of utilities;

            11.   Damages done to the premises by the tenant, caused by
other than ordinary wear and tear;

            12.   The amount and frequency of increases in rental
charges; and

            13.   Whether, and the extent to which, the income from an
increase in rental charges has been or will be reinvested in
improvements to the accommodations.

         (b)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission
from considering other relevant circumstances.

      (2)   The rent of a tenant protected by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 47a-23c
who files a complaint with the Commission pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §
47a-23c(c)(2) may be increased only to the extent that such increase is
fair and equitable, based on the criteria set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 7-148c.

   (D)   Procedures on hearing on complaints.

      (1)   Upon the filing of a complaint, the Commission shall
promptly notify all parties in writing of the receipt of the complaint.
Such notice shall also inform the parties that the landlord is
prohibited from retaliating against the tenant due to the filing of the
complaint. It shall also inform the parties that, until a decision on
the complaint is made by the Commission, the tenant's liability shall be
for the amount of the last rent prior to the increase complained of or,
if there is no such increase, the last agreed-upon rent, and that an
eviction based upon non-payment of rent cannot be initiated against a
tenant who continues to pay the last agreed-upon rent during the
pendency of the Fair Rent Commission proceeding.

      (2)   If a complaint alleges housing conditions that violate a
housing, health, building or other code or statute, the Commission shall
notify the appropriate municipal office or agency, which may then
concurrently exercise its own powers. In addition, the Commission may
request that the appropriate municipal official or agency promptly
investigate and provide a report to the Commission.

      (3)   If two or more complaints are filed against the same
landlord by tenants occupying different rental units in the same
building, complex, or mobile home park that appear to raise the same or
similar issues, the Commission may consolidate such claims for hearing.

      (4)   The Commission or municipal staff may, to the extent
practicable, encourage the parties to the complaint to reach a mutually
satisfactory resolution through informal conciliation. Municipal staff
may serve as informal conciliators. Any agreement to resolve the
complaint shall be in writing and signed by the parties.

      (5)   A hearing on the complaint shall be scheduled no later than
30 days after the filing of the complaint, unless impracticable. Written
notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing shall be given to the
parties to the complaint at least ten days prior to the hearing by first
class and certified mail and, if practicable, by electronic mail.

      (6)   All parties to a hearing shall have the right to be
represented, to cross-examine witnesses, to examine documents introduced
into evidence, and to call witnesses and introduce evidence. The
testimony taken at a hearing shall be made under oath. Hearings shall be
recorded.

      (7)   In the event that there is insufficient time to complete a
hearing or for other cause, the Commission shall have the power to
adjourn the hearing to another time and date.

      (8)   No sale, assignment, transfer of the housing accommodation
in question or attempt to evict the tenant shall be cause for
discontinuing any pending proceeding nor shall it affect the rights,
duties and obligations of the Commission or the parties.

   (E)   Rent reduction order and repairs.

      (1)   The Commission shall render its decision at the same meeting
at which the hearing on the complaint is completed or within 30 days
following such date, unless impracticable, in which case at a date
mutually consented to by the parties. In accordance with the State
Freedom of Information Act, both the hearing itself and the deliberation
by the Commission shall be open to observation by the public. Until a
decision on the complaint is made by the Commission, the tenant's
liability shall be for the amount of the last rent prior to the increase
complained of or, if there is no such increase, the last agreed-upon
rent.

      (2)   If the Commission determines after a hearing that the rental
charge or proposed increase in the rental charge for any housing
accommodation is so excessive, based on the standards and criteria set
forth in division (C), as to be harsh and unconscionable, it may order
that the rent be limited to such an amount as it determines to be fair
and equitable, effective the month in which the tenant filed the
complaint. A Commission's orders may include, but are not limited to, a
reduction in a rental charge or proposed rent increase; a delay in an
increased rental charge until specified conditions, such as compliance
with municipal code enforcement orders, have been satisfied; or a
phase-in of an increase in a rental charge, not to exceed a fair and
equitable rent, in stages over a period of time. Commission orders shall
be effective for at least one year from the date of issuance, unless the
Commission otherwise orders.

      (3)   If the Commission determines after a hearing that a housing
accommodation fails to comply with any municipal ordinance or state
statute or regulation relating to health and safety, the Commission may
order the suspension or reduction of further payment of rent by the
tenant until such time as the landlord makes the necessary changes,
repairs or installations so as to bring the housing accommodation into
compliance with such laws, statutes, or regulations. If the Commission's
order constitutes a complete suspension of all rent, the rent during
such period shall be paid to the Commission to be held in escrow subject
to such ordinances or provisions as may be adopted by the town, city or
borough. Upon the landlord's full compliance with such ordinance,
statute or regulation for which payments were made into such escrow, the
Commission shall determine after hearing such distribution of the
escrowed funds as it deems appropriate.

   (F)   Retaliation.

      (1)   No landlord shall engage in retaliatory actions. Retaliatory
actions by a landlord include but are not limited to the following:

         (a)   Engaging in any action prohibited by Conn. Gen. Stat. §§
47a-20 or 21-80a within six months after any event listed in such
statutes, including but not limited to within six months after the
tenant has filed a complaint with the Commission.

         (b)   Refusing to renew the lease or other rental agreement of
any tenant; bringing or maintaining an action or proceeding against the
tenant to recover possession of the dwelling unit; demanding an increase
in rent from the tenant; decreasing the services to which the tenant has
previously been entitled; or verbally, physically or sexually harassing
a tenant because a tenant has filed a complaint with the Commission.

         (c)   Engaging in any other action determined by the
Commission, after a hearing, to constitute landlord retaliation as set
forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. 7-148d(b).

      (2)   In the initial notice scheduling a hearing or conciliation
on a complaint, and in its notice of decision, the Commission shall
include notice, in plain language, to landlords and tenants that
retaliatory actions against tenants are prohibited.

      (3)   Any tenant who claims that the action of his or her landlord
constitutes retaliatory action may file a notice of such claim with the
Commission. If the Commission determines, after a hearing, which hearing
shall be expedited, that a landlord has retaliated in any manner against
a tenant because the tenant has complained to the Commission, the
Commission may order the landlord to cease and desist from such conduct
and order the landlord to withdraw or remediate such conduct as has
already occurred.

   (G)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by any order or decision of the
Commission may appeal to the Superior Court within 30 days of the
issuance of the written notice of the decision to the parties. Such
notice shall include notice of the right to appeal, the court to which
an appeal may be taken, and the time in which an appeal must be filed.
Unless otherwise directed by the Commission or the court, the filing of
an appeal shall not stay any order issued by the Commission.

   (H)   Failure to comply with Commission orders.

      (1)   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148f, any person who
violates any order of rent reduction or rent suspension by demanding,
accepting or receiving an amount in excess thereof while such order
remains in effect, and no appeal pursuant to § 7-148e is pending, or who
violates any other provision of this section or Conn. Gen. Stat. §§
47a-20 or 21-80a or who refuses to obey any subpoena, order or decision
of the Commission pursuant thereto shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100 for each offense. If such offense continues for more than
five days, it shall constitute a new offense for each day it continues
to exist thereafter. No action shall be taken on any such violation by
the prosecuting authorities of the town except upon written complaint of
the Chairperson of the Commission after at least a two-thirds vote of
approval by the members of the Commission.

      (2)   The Commission, in its own name or through the municipality,
may bring a civil action to any court of competent jurisdiction or take
any other action in such a court to enforce any order of the Commission
made pursuant to this section, or to enjoin a violation or threatened
violation of any order of the Commission.

(Ord. passed 8-20-2024)

SCHOOL BUILDING COMMITTEES

§ 31.25 SCHOOL BUILDING COMMITTEE (EAST LYME ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS).

   (A)   There is constituted a nine-member School Building Committee
for alterations and upgrades to the Niantic Center School, Lillie B.
Haynes School and Flanders Elementary School. Said School Building
Committee shall consist of the seven-member Town Building Committee and
two members of the Board of Education appointed to the School Building
Committee by the Board of Selectmen.

   (B)   The Superintendent of Schools and the Elementary School
Principals for each of the schools shall be ex officio members of the
Committee without vote, and shall not be counted in determining a
quorum.

(Ord. passed 6-21-2017)

§ 31.26 SCHOOL BUILDING COMMITTEE (EAST LYME MIDDLE SCHOOL).

   (A)   The Town Board of Education shall act as the town’s School
Building Committee, during the design phase of the project to construct
a new middle school and convert the existing middle school to an
elementary school, and the Town Building Committee shall act as the
town’s School Building Committee during the construction phase of the
project.

   (B)   The Superintendent of schools shall be an ex officio member
without vote of the committee during the design phase and the
construction phase of the project.

(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 752; TM Volume 21, page 752

§ 31.27 SCHOOL BUILDING COMMITTEE (LILLIE B. HAYNES ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
AND EAST LYME HIGH SCHOOL).

   (A)   There is constituted a nine-member School Building Committee
for the roof replacement project at Lillie B. Haynes Elementary School
and the roof replacement project at East Lyme High School Aquatics
Center. Said School Building Committee shall consist of the seven-member
Town Building Committee and two members of the Board of Education
appointed to the School Building Committee by the Board of Selectmen.

   (B)   The Superintendent of Schools and the Director of Facilities
for East Lyme Public Schools shall be ex officio members of the
Committee without vote and shall not be counted in determining quorum.

(Ord. passed 10-2-2024)

ZONING AND PLANNING COMMISSIONS

§ 31.40 DESIGNATING ZONING COMMISSION AS AQUIFER PROTECTION AGENCY.

   The Town Zoning Commission is hereby designated as the Town Aquifer
Protection Agency, with all the authority, powers and responsibilities
of local aquifer protection agencies set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§
22a-354a et seq., as they may be amended from time to time.

(Ord. effective 11-20-2005)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 22, page 556

§ 31.41 PROVIDING FOR ELECTION OF ALTERNATE MEMBERS OF ZONING
COMMISSION.

   (A)   Pursuant to Public Act 84-154, there are constituted three
alternate members of the Zoning Commission, with the powers and duties
set forth in said Act. Such alternate members shall be electors and
shall not be members of the Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning
Commission.

   (B)   At the town election in November of 1985, one alternate member
of the Zoning Commission shall be elected for a term of two years, and
two shall be elected for a term of four years. At the town election in
November of 1987, the term of the alternate member which expires in
December of 1987 shall be filled by election for a term of four years.
Alternate members of the Zoning Commission shall be elected in
accordance with Chapter 2 of the Charter. A vacancy occurring among
alternate members shall be filled until the next special election or
regular town election by vote of the members of the Zoning Commission
including any alternate members then serving for absent or disqualified
Commissioners; but if the vacancy is not filled within 30 days from the
time that the office becomes vacant, the Board of Selectmen shall fill
the vacancy within 30 days thereafter.

   (C)   Within 30 days from the effective date of this section, the
Board of Selectmen shall appoint alternate members of the Zoning
Commission to serve until the persons elected in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall have qualified.

(Ord. passed 4-30-1985; Ord. passed 5-25-1986; Ord. passed 12-2-2004)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 15, page 170; TM Volume 15, page 341, amended; TM Volume
22, page 461, amended

§ 31.42 PROVIDING FOR ELECTION OF ALTERNATE MEMBERS OF PLANNING
COMMISSION.

   (A)   At the town election in November of 1975, one alternate member
of the Planning Commission shall be elected for a term of two years, two
alternate members of the Planning Commission shall be elected for terms
of four years.

   (B)   At the town election in November of 1977, the term of the
alternate members of the Planning Commission that expires in December,
1977 shall be filled by election for a term of four years.

   (C)   Alternate members of the Planning Commission shall be elected
in accordance with Chapter 2 of the Charter. A vacancy occurring among
alternate members shall be filled until the next special election or
regular town election by vote of the members of the Planning Commission
including any alternate members then serving for absent or disqualified
Commissioners; but if the vacancy is not filled within 30 days from the
time that the office becomes vacant, the Board of Selectmen shall fill
the vacancy by appointment within 30 days thereafter.

   (D)   Within 30 days from the effective date of this section, the
Board of Selectmen shall appoint alternate members of the Planning
Commission to serve until the persons elected in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall have qualified.

(Ord. passed 2-6-1975; Ord. passed 5-25-1986; Ord. passed 12-4-2004)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 75; TM Volume 15, Page 341; TM Volume 22, page
461, Amended

OTHER BOARDS

§ 31.55 PENSION BOARD.

   (A)   Established. There is established a five-member Pension Board
for the purpose of administration, management, supervision and control
of the town pension plan (the "plan"), as more particularly set forth
hereinafter.

   (B)   Composition and terms.

      (1)   The management and administration of the plan is hereby
vested in the Pension Board, which shall consist of five resident
electors of the town who shall be appointed by the Board of Selectmen.

      (2)   The terms of the Board Members are as follows: three terms
shall be filled by appointment until the first Monday of January, 2024;
two terms shall be filled by appointment until the first Monday of
January, 2026. Thereafter, the terms for each of the members shall be
four years.

      (3)   One of the members shall be an employee of the town who is a
member of the plan. Two of the members shall be experienced in making
investments of the kind in which the pension fund may be invested.

      (4)   The First Selectman, Finance Director, and Human Resource
Director shall be ex-officio members. They shall not have a vote and
shall not be counted in determining a quorum.

   (C)   Powers and duties.

      (1)   The Pension Board may make rules and regulations for the
administration of the plan which are not inconsistent with its terms and
provisions. The Pension Board may construe the plan, and its
constructions thereof and action thereon in good faith shall be final
and conclusive. It may correct any defect or supply any omission or
reconcile any inconsistency in such manner and to such extent as it
shall deem expedient to carry the same into effect, and it shall be the
sole and final judge of such expediency. The Pension Board shall
supervise and control the operation of the plan in accordance with the
terms hereof and shall have all powers necessary to accomplish that
purpose.

      (2)   The Pension Board may employ such actuarial, legal,
consulting and other services as it deems necessary for the proper
operation of the plan or pension fund within the limit of such
appropriations as may be made for such purposes. The town, as directed
by the First Selectman, may provide administrative support for the
Pension Board and shall employ such staff as may be approved by the
Board of Selectmen for such purpose.

   (D)   Investment powers.

      (1)   The Pension Board shall manage and control the pension fund
and shall invest and reinvest the principal and income of such fund,
except so much thereof as the Pension Board shall deem necessary to meet
allowances and benefits hereunder, in securities legal for investment by
trustees under the laws of this state. The Pension Board may invest any
portion of the pension fund in any group trust or common trust fund
exempt from tax under § 501(a) or § 584, respectively, of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, that holds assets of retirement plans
exempt from tax under § 401(a) of such code. Any such group trust or
common trust fund shall be considered a part of the plan.

      (2)   The Pension Board may provide by trust, agency, custodian or
other agreement with one or more corporate fiduciaries for the custody,
safekeeping, handling, investment and reinvestment, under the direction
of the Pension Board, of the pension fund's investments.

      (3)   The Pension Board may open in the name of the town pension
plan, with one or more banks or trust companies, such accounts as it
shall deem necessary for the deposit and withdrawal of the funds
received by it and which are to be administered under the terms and
provisions of the pension plan.

   (E)   Insurance. The Pension Board may procure in the name of the
town an appropriate group contract or contracts from any insurance
company duly authorized to transact business in the state for the
purpose of funding all or a portion of the benefits available from time
to time under the plan. The type of contract or contracts and all terms
and conditions thereof shall be determined by the Pension Board on a
basis which is consistent with the provisions of the plan. No publicly
owned corporation, insurance company, or bank shall be disqualified from
being the trustee, agent, custodian or depository, or from participating
in the funding management of the pension fund pursuant to this section,
solely because one or more members of the Pension Board may be an
employee, officer, director or minority stockholder of such corporation,
insurance company or bank.

   (F)   Reports.

      (1)   The Pension Board shall submit annually to the Board of
Selectmen a schedule of its estimated expenses necessary for the
administration of the plan and its estimate of the liability of the town
to the Pension Board.

      (2)   The Pension Board shall annually report to the Board of
Selectmen the financial condition of the plan, including, at least every
other year, an actuarial valuation of assets and liabilities and setting
forth such other facts, recommendations and data as may be of value to
the members of the plan and the Board of Selectmen.

(Ord. passed 2-16-2022)

CHAPTER 32: LAW ENFORCEMENT

Section

General Provisions

   32.01   Setting the number of Justices of the Peace

Board of Police Commissioners

   32.15   Established

   32.16   Composition

   32.17   Powers

   32.18   Police Department

   32.19   Chief of Police

   32.20   Establishment of policies and procedures

   32.21   Establishment of Police Department

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 32.01 SETTING THE NUMBER OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 9-183a, Revision of 1958, as amended,
the number of Justices of the Peace to be elected at the regular
election in November, 1988 and each four years thereafter shall be 101.

(Ord. passed 7-25-1988)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 16, page 226D

BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS

§ 32.15 ESTABLISHED.

   (A)   There is established a seven member Board of Police
Commissioners for the purpose of organizing and maintaining a Police
Department in the town.

   (B)   The Board shall have all the authority, powers and
responsibilities set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-276, as it may be
amended from time to time.

(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed
2-21-2024)

§ 32.16 COMPOSITION.

   (A)   The Board of Police Commissioners shall consist of seven
resident electors of the town appointed by the Board of Selectmen. The
terms are as follows: three terms shall be filled by appointment of four
years until the first Monday of January, 2022; four terms shall be
filled by appointment until the first Monday of January, 2020, which
terms shall expire on the first Monday of January, 2024.

   (B)   No member of the Board of Police Commissioners shall hold any
other elective or appointed office within the town.

(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed
2-21-2024)

§ 32.17 POWERS.

   The Board shall have all of the powers given by the General Statutes
to boards of police commissioners, shall have general management and
supervision of the Police Department of the town and of the property and
equipment used in connection therewith, shall make all needful
regulations for the government thereof not contrary to law or applicable
collective bargaining agreements and may prescribe suitable penalties
for the violation of any such regulation. The Board shall have the sole
power of appointment, promotion and removal of the officers and members
of such Police Department, under such regulations as it adopts for the
purpose, and such appointees shall hold office during good behavior and
until removed for cause upon written charges and after hearing. The
members of such Police Department shall have all such authority with
respect to the service of criminal process and the enforcement of the
criminal laws as is vested by the General Statutes in police officers
and constables.

(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed
2-21-2024)

§ 32.18 POLICE DEPARTMENT.

   The Police Department, under the direction of the Board of Police
Commissioners, shall be responsible for the preservation of the public
peace, prevention of crime, apprehension of criminals, regulation of
traffic, protection of rights of persons and property and enforcement of
the laws of the state, and the ordinances of the town and all rules and
regulations made in accordance therewith. All members of the Department,
except clerks, shall have the same powers and duties with respect to the
service of criminal process and enforcement of the criminal laws as are
vested in officers by the General Statutes.

(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed
2-21-2024)

§ 32.19 CHIEF OF POLICE.

   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and
such other officers of rank, patrol officers, supernumeraries and clerks
as may be necessary to discharge the duties of the Police Department.
The establishment of grades within the Department shall be at the
discretion of the Board of Police Commissioners.

   (B)   (1)   The appointment of the Chief of Police shall be made only
after certification of the applicant by the State of Connecticut Police
Officer Standards and Training Council. The Chief, or in his or her
absence, the officer of rank designated by the Board of Police
Commissioners, shall be responsible for the administration of the
affairs of the Police Department, under the direction of the Board of
Police Commissioners.

      (2)   The duties of the Chief shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:

         (a)   Be responsible for the day to day operation of the Police
Department; report on such operation to the Board of Police
Commissioners at such intervals as said Board shall establish;

         (b)   Initiate and cause to be carried out a continuing program
for instruction and training of personnel for the Department;

         (c)   Develop and preserve system records with respect to law
enforcement and other activities of Department personnel and
communications maintained by the Department;

         (d)   Maintain records of all personnel within the Department,
by rank, grade and category, and render periodic reports to the Board of
Police Commissioners with respect to the performance of duty of such
personnel;

         (e)   Establish schedules and rules with respect to the kind of
duties within the Department;

         (f)   Be personally responsible for the review of records with
respect to all arrests, accidents and complaints made by or to the
Department and render a monthly report to the Board of Police
Commissioners with respect thereto; and

         (g)   Report to the Board of Police Commissioners any neglect
of duty or violation of the Department's rules and regulations promptly
after any such neglect or violation comes to his or her attention.

   (C)   The Chief of Police may be suspended or removed from office by
the Board of Police Commissioners in accordance with the provisions of
Connecticut General Statutes, as it may be amended from time to time.

(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed
2-21-2024)

§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.

   (A)   The Board of Police Commissioners may establish policies and
procedures regarding the assignment of any member or members of the
Police Department to special duty on or near private premises or the
highways adjacent thereto within the town whenever in the opinion of
said Board the activities conducted thereon shall or may cause persons
to congregate or create a hazardous condition, such as construction or
utility projects, concerts, sporting events, circuses, carnivals, fairs,
motion pictures, outdoor theaters, bars, restaurants or other places to
preserve the public safety.

   (B)   The owner or operator of any such private premises upon which
any such activity is conducted within the town shall accept and use the
police so assigned to or near such premises and shall pay to the
Treasurer of the town such rate of compensation as shall be determined
by the Board of Police Commissioners for such special duty. Said payment
shall be made in accordance with such procedures as shall be established
by the Board of Police Commissioners.

   (C)   Police so assigned to such special duty shall be subject to the
rules and regulations of the Department.

   (D)   No person shall operate within the town any construction or
utility project, concert, sporting event, circus, carnival, fair, motion
picture, outdoor theater, bar, restaurant or other place to which or
adjacent to which premises the Board of Police Commissioners has
assigned any police without first having accepted and used such number
of police as have been assigned thereto.

(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed
2-21-2024)

§ 32.21 ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.

   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter and transition from the
constabulary, the Police Department shall be considered as “established”
when the Board of Police Commissioners has adopted such regulations and
procedures as may be necessary or desirable for the proper functioning
of a Police Department, and sufficient funds have been appropriated to
the Board and a Chief of Police has been appointed and sworn. The Board
of Police Commissioners shall certify to the Town Clerk and the Board of
Selectmen the date on which the Police Department is established.

   (B)   On the date the Police Department is established, the
appointment of constables pursuant to the ordinance entitled “Amended
Ordinance Concerning Terms of Appointment and Qualifications of
Constables” shall terminate, and the full-time officers in active
service and in good standing as constables shall be officers of the
Police Department.

   (C)   On the date the Police Department is established, the ordinance
entitled “Resolution Designating First Selectman as Town Agent to act as
Chief of Police” shall be repealed.

   (D)   On the date the Police Department is established, the ordinance
entitled “Resolution Regarding Establishment of a Resident State
Policeman in the Town of East Lyme” shall be repealed.

   (E)   On the date that the Police Department is established, officers
who were appointed by the Board of Selectmen as constables pursuant to
the ordinance entitled “Amended Ordinance Concerning Terms of
Appointment and Qualifications of Constables” and are in active service
and in good standing on the effective date of this section, shall be
officers of the Police Department, with such rank, years of service and
other classifications and categories as are commensurate with their
positions in the constabulary. Unsworn clerks and administrative
personnel who are in active service and in good standing on the
effective date of this section shall be employees of the Police
Department in positions commensurate with their previous service for the
constabulary.

   (F)   On the date the Police Department is established, all business
pending with the constabulary, including, but not limited to,
applications, permits, patrols, arrests, investigations, enforcement
actions, warrants and all other open or pending items of business of any
nature whatsoever, and records of any kind or nature whatsoever
pertaining to the law enforcement and administrative functions of the
constabulary, shall be transferred to and continue to be pending at the
Police Department. All items of property and equipment used in
connection with the business of the constabulary shall continue to be
used by the Police Department.

(Ord. effective 11-15-2016; Ord. effective 1-6-2020; Ord. passed
2-21-2024)

CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS

Section

Board for Admission of Electors

   33.01   Board for Admission of Electors

Voting Districts and Registrar of Voters

   33.15   Voting districts

   33.16   Registrars of Voters

BOARD FOR ADMISSION OF ELECTORS

§ 33.01 BOARD FOR ADMISSION OF ELECTORS.

   The Board for Admission of Electors shall consist of the Town Clerk
and the Registrars of Voters for the First District.

(Ord. passed 2-2-1970)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 10, page 245

VOTING DISTRICTS AND REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

§ 33.15 VOTING DISTRICTS.

   (A)   The town is divided into three voting districts.

   (B)   The first voting district comprises all the area lying
northwest of U.S. Route I-95 (the Connecticut Turnpike).

   (C)   The second voting district comprises:

      (1)   All the area lying southeast of U.S. Route I-95 and east and
southeast of the following line: commencing at the intersection of the
centerline of Route 161 with the southeasterly line of U.S. Route I-95,
thence run southerly along the centerline of Route 161 to the centerline
of East Pattagansett Road, thence run southerly along the centerline of
East Pattagansett Road to the centerline of Black Point Road, thence run
southerly, southwesterly and southerly along the centerline of Black
Point Road to its intersection with the railroad; thence run westerly
along the railroad to its intersection with the easterly shore of the
Pattagansett River; thence run generally southerly along the easterly
shore of the Pattagansett River to the most southerly point of Old Black
Point.

      (2)   All properties having street numbers assigned by the town
on:

         (a)   The portion of Route 161 lying south of U.S. Route I-95;

         (b)   East Pattagansett Road;

         (c)   Black Point Road to its intersection with the railroad;

         (d)   Brook Road;

         (e)   Faulkner Drive; and

         (f)   McElaney Drive.

      (3)   The property on which is located Niantic Center School.

   (D)   The third voting district comprises all the area not included
in the first or second voting districts.

(Ord. passed 1-18-1995)

§ 33.16 REGISTRARS OF VOTERS.

   At each state election, there shall be elected two registrars of
voters for the entire town.

(Ord. passed 1-18-1995)

CHAPTER 34: TAXATION

Section

General Provisions

   34.001   Authorizing Tax Collector to retain payments in excess of
the amount due provided the excess is less than $5

   34.002   Persons owing past due property taxes

   34.003   Property on which property taxes are past due

   34.004   Abatement and deferral of payment of property tax

   34.005   Date taxes become past due

   34.006   Tax abatement program for certain emergency services
volunteers

Tax Exempt Organizations

   34.020   Property tax exemption for property leased to tax-exempt
organizations

   34.021   Property acquired by tax exempt organizations

Solar Energy Systems

   34.035   Tax exemption for solar energy systems

Veterans or Their Surviving Spouses

   34.050   Additional tax exemption

Motor Vehicles Modified for Disabled Persons

   34.065   Property tax exemption for certain motor vehicles modified
for disabled persons

Elderly and Totally Disabled Homeowners

   34.080   Property tax relief for elderly and totally disabled
homeowners

Low and Moderate Income Housing

   34.095   Definitions

   34.096   Contracts for abatement

   34.097   Term

   34.098   Valuation

   34.099   State assistance

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 34.001 AUTHORIZING TAX COLLECTOR TO RETAIN PAYMENTS IN EXCESS OF THE
AMOUNT DUE PROVIDED THE EXCESS IS LESS THAN $5.

   Pursuant to the provisions of the Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-129, the Tax
Collector is hereby authorized to retain payments of taxes in excess of
the amount due, provided the amount of each such excess payment is less
than $5.

(Ord. passed 8-2-2008)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 22, page 814

§ 34.002 PERSONS OWING PAST DUE PROPERTY TAXES.

   (A)   The Treasurer, before making payment to any person for services
rendered to or materials purchased for the town shall ascertain from the
Tax Collector whether such person owes past due taxes on real or
personal property. Any such past due taxes and any interest and fees in
respect thereto, shall be deducted from the amount due and owing from
the town to any such person and shall be paid to the Tax Collector and
applied to such taxes, interest and fees.

   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the payment
of wages.

(Ord. passed 8-4-1983)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 15, page 2

§ 34.003 PROPERTY ON WHICH PROPERTY TAXES ARE PAST DUE.

   No building permit, certificate of occupancy or permit for excavation
in a highway for purposes of installing a driveway shall be issued as to
any real property on which there are past due property taxes.

(Ord. passed 8-4-1983)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 15, page 2

§ 34.004 ABATEMENT AND DEFERRAL OF PAYMENT OF PROPERTY TAX.

   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Public Act 82-1 of the
June, 1982 Special Session of the General Assembly, property taxes on
real and personal property damaged as a result of the flooding and
related occurrences in the period from June 4, 1982 to June 7, 1982,
inclusive are abated as provided in this section.

   (B)   Such abatement shall be equal to one-third of the total
property tax determined as the same proportionate part of such total tax
as the damaged portion of such property bears to the entire property
subject to such tax; provided, however, that no abatement shall take
effect unless the loss in assessed value resulting from such damage is
not less than 10% of the assessed value of such damaged property.

   (C)   Any construction or reconstruction related to property so
damaged with respect to which property taxes have been abated as
provided in this section shall be subject to property tax as provided in
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-53a.

   (D)   With respect to any real or personal property damaged as a
result of such flooding and related occurrences which qualifies for
property tax abatement under division (B) above, payment of the property
tax may be deferred without interest until July 1, 1983.

   (E)   Applications for the abatement provided for in division (A)
above and for the deferral of payment provided for in division (D) above
shall be filed with the Assessor in a form to be determined by the
Assessor not later than September 10. The Assessor shall notify the
applicants of his or her decision not later than September 30.

   (F)   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by the actions of the
Assessor under this section may appeal to the Board of Tax Review on or
before October 8, 1982.

(Ord. passed 9-3-1982)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 261

§ 34.005 DATE TAXES BECOME PAST DUE.

   (A)   Generally.

      (1)   To designate April 1, 1977 as the date on which property
taxes for the tax year beginning September 1, 1976 and ending June 30,
1977, shall be due and payable.

      (2)   To provide that commencing on July 1, 1977, property taxes
shall be due and payable in two equal semi-annual installments with the
first installment due and payable on July 1 and the second installment
due and payable on January 1; provided, however, that all property taxes
on motor vehicles shall be due and payable in a single installment on
July 1, as required by the 1976 General Assembly; provided further, that
all other property taxes of $100 or less shall be due and payable in
full on July 1.

   (B)   Assessment date. To designate October 1, 1976 as the assessment
date for property taxes on motor vehicles for the tax year ending June
30, 1977, as required by the 1976 General Assembly.

(Res. passed - -)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 246

§ 34.006 TAX ABATEMENT PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN EMERGENCY SERVICES
VOLUNTEERS.

   (A)   Tax abatement program. Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81w,
there is hereby established a tax abatement program for certain
emergency services volunteers. The purpose of this program is to retain
existing volunteers and attract new volunteers.

   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
a different meaning.

      ABATEMENT LIST. A list of eligible residents, as defined herein,
qualifying for this tax abatement program. The abatement list shall be
certified by a vote of the Executive Board of the Flanders Volunteer
Fire Department and the Board of Directors of the Niantic Volunteer Fire
Department and reported by the respective Fire Chiefs of those
departments to the Tax Collector's Office on or before the certification
date, as defined herein.

      BENEFIT. A reduction in property tax liability of no more than
$1,000 per eligible resident from the total property taxes that would
otherwise be due from that resident for the assessment year following
the certification date. Where an eligible resident has a total property
tax liability of less than $1,000, the benefit shall be limited to the
extent of the eligible resident's total property tax liability. An
eligible resident appearing on the abatement list for both the Flanders
Volunteer Fire Department and the Niantic Volunteer Fire Department
shall be eligible for only one benefit.

      CERTIFICATION DATE. September 30 of each year.

      ELIGIBLE RESIDENT. Each resident of the Town of East Lyme who
volunteers his or her services either:

         (a)   1.   As an active nonsalaried state certified firefighter
#1, emergency medical technician, or emergency medical responder for the
Flanders Volunteer Fire Department; and

            2.   Responds to at least 15% of the eligible calls in the
12-month period ending August 31 preceding the current certification
date; and

            3.   Is in compliance with the applicable requirements
holding active service status within the department; or

         (b)   1.   As an active nonsalaried state certified firefighter
#1, emergency medical technician, or emergency medical responder for the
Niantic Volunteer Fire Department; and

            2.   Responds to at least 15% of the eligible calls in the
12-month period ending August 31 preceding the current certification
date; and

            3.   Is in compliance with the applicable requirements for
holding active service status within the department.

   (C)   Administration. On or before the certification date, the
respective Fire Chiefs of the Flanders Volunteer Fire Department and the
Niantic Volunteer Fire Department shall transmit the abatement list as
certified by the Board of Directors or Executive Board for the
respective departments, to the Tax Collector and shall forward copies of
the abatement list and certification to the Office of the First
Selectman. Upon receipt of the abatement list, the Tax Collector shall
adjust the property tax bills of each eligible resident for the
assessment year following the certification date by applying the maximum
allowable benefit for each eligible resident. In no case shall an
eligible resident receive a benefit in excess of his or her total tax
liability.

   (D)   Data retention. The Fire Chiefs of the Flanders Volunteer Fire
Department and the Niantic Volunteer Fire Department shall retain the
data used to determine eligible resident status for the abatement list
for a period of two years following the certification date applicable to
that abatement list. Said data shall be made available for inspection by
the Tax Collector upon request by the Tax Collector.

   (E)   Regulation of volunteer requirements. This section shall not
alter or impair the ability of the Flanders Volunteer Fire Department or
the Niantic Volunteer Fire Department to alter existing qualifications
or establish additional qualifications for active service status in each
department. Any change in qualifications for active service status in
each department hereinafter made by the respective departments shall
apply to the eligible resident criteria set forth in division (B)(1) and
(2) above without further action by the Board of Selectmen.

   (F)   No interlocal agreement. Without further action by the Board of
Selectman and reciprocal treatment from another municipality, this
section shall not be deemed to grant a benefit to a resident of the town
who serves as an emergency volunteer in another municipality.

(Ord. passed - -)

TAX EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS

§ 34.020 PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION FOR PROPERTY LEASED TO TAX-EXEMPT
ORGANIZATIONS.

   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81(58), an exemption from property
tax is authorized for personal property leased to a charitable,
religious or nonprofit organization which is exempt from taxation for
federal income tax purposes; provided such property is used exclusively
for the purposes of such charitable, religious or nonprofit
organization.

(Ord. passed 11-7-1986)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 16, page 37

§ 34.021 PROPERTY ACQUIRED BY TAX EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS.

   (A)   The property tax exemption authorized by Conn. Gen. Stat. §
12-81(7) to (16), inclusive, as amended, shall be effective as of the
date of acquisition of the property to which the exemption applies by a
tax-exempt organization.

   (B)   The Board of Selectmen shall, upon application by such a
tax-exempt organization, authorize reimbursement of such organization
for any tax paid by it for a period subsequent to such date of
acquisition, and for any tax paid by the prior owner subsequent to such
date of acquisition for which such organization reimburses such owner.

(Ord. passed 12-5-1977)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 13, page 38

SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS

§ 34.035 TAX EXEMPTION FOR SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.

   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §12-81, as amended, an
exemption from property tax is authorized for the following:

         (a)   Any building, the construction of which is commenced on
or after October 1, 1976 and before October 1, 1991, which is equipped
with an active solar energy heating or cooling system;

         (b)   Any building to which an active solar energy heating or
cooling system is added on or after October 1, 1976 and before October
1, 1991;

         (c)   Any solar energy electricity generating system which is
installed for the generation of electricity for private residential use,
provided such installation occurs on or after October 1, 1977 and before
October 1, 1991.

         (d)   Any building, the construction of which is commenced on
or after April 20, 1997 which is equipped with a passive or hybrid solar
energy heating or cooling system; and

         (e)   Any building to which a passive or hybrid solar energy
heating or cooling system is added on or after April 20, 1997.

      (2)   ACTIVE SOLAR ENERGY HEATING OR COOLING SYSTEM as used in
divisions (A)(1)(a) and (A)(1)(b) above means equipment which:

         (a)   Provides for the collection, transfer, storage and use of
incident solar energy for water heating, space heating or cooling which
absent such solar energy system would require a conventional energy
resource, such as petroleum products, natural gas or electricity;

         (b)   Employs mechanical means such as fans or pumps to
transfer energy; and

         (c)   Which meets standards established by regulation by the
Secretary of the Office of Policy and Management.

      (3)   PASSIVE SOLAR ENERGY HEATING OR COOLING SYSTEM as used in
divisions (A)(1)(c) and (A)(1)(d) above means a system which utilizes
the structural elements of a building for the collection of incident
solar energy and its storage and distribution for use in water heating
or space heating or cooling; which building absent such system would
require a conventional energy resource, such a petroleum products,
natural gas or electricity, and which system meets standards established
by regulation by the Secretary of the Office of Policy and Management.

      (4)   HYBRID SOLAR ENERGY HEATING OR COOLING SYSTEM as used in
divisions (A)(1)(c) and (A)(1)(d) above means a solar energy heating or
cooling system which consists of both active and passive elements and
which meets the standards established for both.

      (5)   SOLAR ENERGY ELECTRICITY GENERATING SYSTEM. Equipment which
is designed, operated and installed as a system at any private
residential location, which utilizes solar energy to produce electricity
for consumption at such location and which meets standards established
by regulation by the Secretary of the Office of Policy and Management.

   (B)   The extent of the exemptions granted by divisions (A)(1)(a) and
(A)(1)(b) above is the amount by which the assessed valuation of such
real property equipped with such a system exceeds the assessed valuation
of such real property equipped with the conventional portion of the
heating of cooling system, exclusive of any portion of such system
related to solar energy, as determined by the Assessor.

   (C)   The extent of the exemptions granted by divisions (A)(1)(c) and
(A)(1)(d) above is the amount by which the assessed valuation of such
real property equipped with such a system exceeds the valuation of which
such real property would be assessed if building using conventional
construction techniques in lieu of construction related to such a
system, as determined by the Assessor.

   (D)   These exemptions shall only apply to the first 15 assessment
years following construction of said building or the addition or
installation of any such system to a building.

   (E)   Application for such exemptions must be filed in accordance
with the relevant subsections of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81 and on or
before November 1 following the annual assessment date. Such application
shall not be required for any assessment year following that for which
the initial application is filed; provided if such system is altered in
a manner which would require a building permit, such alteration shall be
deemed a waiver of the right to such exemption until a new application,
applicable with respect to such altered system, is filed and the right
to such exemption is established as required initially.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1981; Ord. passed 2-10-2000; Ord. passed 6-19-2008)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 140; Amended, See page 232

   TM Volume 21, page 752; TM Volume 22, page 804

VETERANS OR THEIR SURVIVING SPOUSES

§ 34.050 ADDITIONAL TAX EXEMPTION.

   (A)   Any veteran entitled to an exemption from property tax in
accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81(19) shall be entitled to an
additional exemption, provided such veteran’s qualifying income does not
exceed the applicable maximum amount as provided under Conn. Gen. Stat.§
12-81, as it may be amended from time to time, plus $2,000. The
exemption provided for under Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81(19) shall be
applied to the assessed value of an eligible veteran’s property and
shall be in the amount of $5,000.

   (B)   Any veteran’s surviving spouse entitled to an exemption from
property tax in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81(22) shall be
entitled to an additional exemption, provided such surviving spouse’s
qualifying income does not exceed the applicable maximum amount as
provided under Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81, as it may be amended from time
to time, plus $2,000. The exemption provided for under Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 12-81(22) shall be applied to the assessed value of an eligible
surviving spouse’s property and shall be in the amount of $5,000.

   (C)   Any such veteran or spouse submitting a claim for such
additional exemption shall be required to file an application on a form
prepared for such purpose by the Assessor, not later than the assessment
date with respect to which such additional exemption is claimed;
provided when an applicant has filed for such exemption and received
approval for the first time, such applicant shall be required to file
for such exemption biennially thereafter, subject to the provisions of
division (D) below. Each such application shall include a copy of such
veteran’s or spouse’s federal income tax return, or in the event such a
return is not filed such evidence related to income as may be required
by the Assessor, for the tax year of such veteran or spouse ending
immediately prior to the assessment date with respect to which such
additional exemption is claimed.

   (D)   Any person who has submitted an application and been approved
in any year for the additional exemption under divisions (A) or (B)
above shall, in the year immediately following approval, be presumed to
be qualified for such exemption. During the year immediately following
such approval, the Assessor shall notify, in writing, each person
presumed to be qualified pursuant to this division (D) of their duty to
reapply for continuance of the exemption or to inform the Assessor of
any change in circumstances that disqualifies them from such exemption.
If any such person has qualifying income in excess of the maximum
allowed under said divisions (A) or (B) above, such person shall notify
the Assessor on or before the next filing date for such exemption and
shall be denied such exemption for the assessment year immediately
following and for any subsequent year until such person has reapplied
and again qualified for such exemption. Any person who fails to notify
the assessor of such disqualification shall make payment to the
municipality in the amount of property tax loss related to the exemption
improperly taken.

(Ord. effective 10-1-2006)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 22, page 572

MOTOR VEHICLES MODIFIED FOR DISABLED PERSONS

§ 34.065 PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN MOTOR VEHICLES MODIFIED FOR
DISABLED PERSONS.

   (A)   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-81c(3), an exemption from
personal property tax is authorized for certain modified
disabled-accessible motor vehicles, owned by such disabled person or his
or her parent, that are used primarily for the transportation of
disabled persons.

   (B)   A MODIFIED DISABLED-ACCESSIBLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall be defined
as any production motor vehicle that has been altered or reconfigured,
or has undergone mechanical or structural changes, that is not used for
commercial purposes, which permits an individual with a disability to
safely drive or ride as a passenger. Vehicle modifications shall
include, but are not limited to:

      (1)   Wheelchair or scooter loaders which mount on the roof in the
passenger area or in the trunk or other storage areas of a car or other
motor vehicle;

      (2)   Any vehicle which has had automotive adaptive control
devices (“AACDs”) installed. AACDs shall include any mechanical or
electrical devices added to the standard motor vehicle to enable an
individual with mobility restrictions to control the accelerator, foot
brake, turn signals, dimmer switch, steering wheel or parking brake; and

      (3)   Any vehicle equipped with ramps, stretchers or other special
seating and alterations to accommodate medical equipment.

   (C)   The Tax Assessor shall determine whether modifications not
specifically listed in division (B) above qualify the vehicle as a
modified disabled-accessible motor vehicle.

   (D)   Any person who desires to claim the exemption provided in this
section shall file with the Tax Assessor of the town, before October 1
of any assessment year for which exemption is claimed, a written request
for said exemption containing information sufficient to enable the Tax
Assessor to make a determination of eligibility, including, but not
limited to, a letter from a physician and documentation of the
modification. Failure to file such a request in said manner shall
constitute a waiver of the right to such exemption for the assessment
year.

(Ord. effective 11-20-2005)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 22, page 555

ELDERLY AND TOTALLY DISABLED HOMEOWNERS

§ 34.080 PROPERTY TAX RELIEF FOR ELDERLY AND TOTALLY DISABLED
HOMEOWNERS.

   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-129n, property tax relief for
qualified elderly and totally disabled homeowners in the town is hereby
provided with respect to real property owned and occupied by such
residents as their principal residence, on the following terms and
conditions.

   (A)   Applicants must be residents of the town who are:

      (1)   Sixty-five years of age or over, or whose spouses, living
with them, are 65 years of age or over and the surviving spouse of a
taxpayer who has qualified under this section at the time of his or her
death or with respect to real property for which such residents or their
spouses are liable for real property taxes under Conn. Gen. Stat. §
12-48; or

      (2)   Under age 65 and eligible in accordance with applicable
federal regulations to receive permanent total disability benefits under
Social Security, or have not been engaged in employment covered by
Social Security and have not qualified for benefits thereunder, but are
qualified for permanent total disability benefits under any federal,
state or local government retirement or disability plan, including the
Railroad Retirement Act and any government-related teacher’s retirement
plan with requirements regarding qualifications for such permanent total
disability benefits that are comparable to such requirements under
Social Security, and are liable for real property taxes under Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 12-48.

   (B)   Applicants must have been taxpayers of the town for ten years
immediately preceding their receipt of tax relief under this section,
and shall be current in their payment of property taxes to the town as
of the date of application.

   (C)   The property for which tax relief is claimed must be occupied
by an applicant as his or her principal residence for more than 183 days
of each year.

   (D)   Applicants shall have individually, if unmarried, or jointly,
if married, adjusted gross income, as shown on Internal Revenue Service
1040, Social Security benefits and all other income, hereinafter called
“qualifying income” during the calendar year preceding the filing of his
or her application in accordance with the standards set forth below.

   (E)   (1)   Tax credits shall be provided to qualified applicants on
a graduated basis in accordance with the following income and credit
standards:

 

  ------------------- ------------
  Qualifying Income   Tax Credit
  $0—$13,300          $1,000
  $13,301—$18,100     $900
  $18,101—$22,600     $600
  $22,601—$27,100     $400
  $27,101—$33,000     $300
  ------------------- ------------

 

      (2)   The “qualifying income” standards in the table set forth
above shall be adjusted annually in accordance with the determination of
the Secretary of the Connecticut Office of Policy and Management as
distributed to the Assessor in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. §
12-170aa(b)(2).

   (F)   Persons who qualify for property tax relief under this section
may also qualify for deferral of the remaining amount of taxes on
qualifying real property; provided that the real property tax which
would have been imposed on a qualifying taxpayer in the absence of state
and local tax relief shall not be reduced by more than 75% by virtue of
the tax credit and deferment provided by this section, together with all
other tax relief obtained by said person pursuant to the Connecticut
General Statutes. Any such deferral shall be on the following terms and
conditions.

      (1)   All deferred taxes and interest shall be reimbursed to the
town upon the death of the recipient of any tax deferral, or upon
conveyance or transfer of the real property subject to tax deferral.

      (2)   All deferred taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per
year. Such interest shall be simple interest, not compounded, and shall
accrue from the due date of each installment until the date of
reimbursement to the town.

      (3)   Total tax deferments, including accrued interest, for all
years shall not exceed the assessed value of the real property upon
which deferment has been approved.

      (4)   An applicant receiving a tax deferment shall enter into a
written agreement with the town providing for reimbursement of all
deferred taxes and interest. The principal amount of such tax deferral
shall be recorded in the land records of the town and, together with the
interest thereon, shall constitute a lien on the property. All deferred
taxes and interest shall be payable upon death, conveyance or transfer,
as set forth in division (F)(2) above.

   (G)   The property tax relief provided by this section shall be in
addition to and not dependent upon those benefits available to qualified
taxpayers under the Connecticut General Statutes; provided that the town
and state tax relief in any year shall not exceed 100% of the real
property tax which would have been imposed on a qualified taxpayer in
the absence of said statutes and this section.

   (H)   If the state denies the eligibility of an applicant for the
portion of tax relief granted under one of the state tax relief
programs, the Assessor shall deny the applicant the local share of tax
relief, and remove the applicant from the town’s tax relief records.

   (I)   The total of all tax relief granted under the provisions of
this section shall not in any taxable year exceed an amount equal to 10%
of the total town-wide real property tax assessed in the town in the
preceding tax year.

   (J)   When title to real property is recorded in the name of the
taxpayer or his or her spouse who receive tax relief under this section
and any other person or persons, the tax relief under this section shall
be prorated to allow tax relief equivalent to the fractional share in
the property of such taxpayer or spouse. The persons not otherwise
eligible for tax relief shall not receive any tax credit.

   (K)   Upon the sale, conveyance or transfer of the property, the new
owner shall not be entitled tax relief under this section. The Assessor
and Tax Collector shall prorate the increased tax liability from the
date of sale or transfer and bill the new owner within a reasonable time
thereafter.

   (L)   The Tax Collector and Assessor shall prescribe, with regard to
their respective duties under this section, such forms and procedures as
may be necessary to implement this section. The Assessor, in addition,
shall satisfy himself or herself as to the qualifying income of an
applicant for benefits under this section by requesting and reviewing
such evidence of qualifying income as he or she may deem pertinent. All
applications, federal income tax returns filed therewith and any
additional evidence of qualifying income which the assessor may require
shall be kept confidential and not open to public inspection.

   (M)   Applications for benefits under this section shall be filed
with the Assessor between February 1 and May 15, annually.

   (N)   This section shall be applicable to the Grand List of October
1, 2006 and all subsequent Grand Lists.

(Ord. effective 11-20-2005)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 22, page 556

LOW AND MODERATE INCOME HOUSING

§ 34.095 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   LOW AND MODERATE INCOME HOUSING. Housing, the construction or
rehabilitation of which is aided or assisted in any way by any federal
or state statute, which housing is subject to regulation or supervision
of rents, charges or sales prices and methods of operation by a
governmental agency under a regulatory agreement or other instrument
which restricts occupancy of such housing to persons or families whose
incomes do not exceed prescribed limits, and shall be deemed to include
the land on which such housing is situated.

   OWNER. A person or persons, partnership, joint venture or corporation
who or which has executed, or will execute, a regulatory agreement or
other instrument with a governmental agency which limits occupancy of
the low and moderate income housing owned or to be owned by such person
or persons, partnership, joint venture or corporation to persons or
families whose incomes do not exceed prescribed limits.

(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 220

§ 34.096 CONTRACTS FOR ABATEMENT.

   (A)   The Board of Selectmen may enter into contracts for the town
with owners of low and moderate income housing granting abatement, in
whole or in part, of the real property taxes on such housing; provided,
that such abatement need not be conditioned upon receipt of state
reimbursement to the town for such abatement; and provided further that
each such contract shall require that the owner apply the money
equivalent of the taxes so abated to one or more of the following
specified purposes:

      (1)   To reduce rents below the levels which would be achieved in
the absence of abatement;

      (2)   To improve housing quality and design;

      (3)   To effect occupancy by persons and families of varying
income levels, within prescribed limits; or

      (4)   To provide necessary related facilities.

   (B)   The amount of such abatement shall be established in each such
contract, giving due consideration to the purpose or purposes to which
the money equivalent of the taxes so abated is to be applied.

(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 220

§ 34.097 TERM.

   The abatement shall become effective on the date specified in the
contract between the town and the owner of low and moderate income
housing. The term of abatement shall extend for the remainder of the
fiscal year in which such abatement becomes effective and may continue
for a period not to exceed 39 consecutive fiscal years thereafter;
provided, that such abatement shall terminate at any time when the
property for which tax abatement had been granted is not used solely for
low and moderate income housing.

(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 220

§ 34.098 VALUATION.

   For the purpose of determining the amount of taxes to be abated as
aforesaid, the present true and actual value of low and moderate income
housing on which rents and carrying charges are limited by regulatory
agreement with, or otherwise regulated by, the federal or state
government or department or agency thereof, shall be based upon and
shall not exceed the capitalized value of the net rental income of such
housing; provided, that for the purposes of this section, NET RENTAL
INCOME shall mean gross income as limited by the schedule of rents or
carrying charges, less reasonable operating expenses and property taxes.

(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 220

§ 34.099 STATE ASSISTANCE.

   The Board of Selectmen may enter into contracts with the state for
financial assistance by the state in the form of reimbursement for all
or any part of the tax abatement granted to an owner of low and moderate
income housing in accordance with this subchapter but the entering into
of such a contract for financial assistance need not be a condition of
any tax abatement.

(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 220

CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES

Section

General Provisions

   35.01   Lost goods

Ethics Code

   35.15   Declaration of policy and purpose

   35.16   Applicability

   35.17   Definitions

   35.18   Standards of conduct

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 35.01 LOST GOODS.

   (A)   The provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 50-9 to 50-13, Revision
of 1958, as amended, are adopted and made applicable to lost goods
within the town.

   (B)   Any person who finds and takes possession of any article of the
value of $1 or more shall report the finding of such article to the
Police Department of the town within 48 hours from the time of such
finding. The finder of such article shall, at the time of reporting,
furnish to the Police Department the date, time and place of finding,
his or her name and address and a description of the article found and,
within a period of one week from such finding, shall deliver such
article to the Police Department.

   (C)   The Police Department shall, commencing within one week from
the date of receipt of any lost article, advertise a general description
of such article once a week for at least two successive weeks in a
newspaper having a circulation in the town and shall retain custody of
such article for six months from the date of receipt thereof, unless it
is claimed by the rightful owner within such six-month period. The
requirement of advertising may be omitted when the value or estimated
value of the article is less than $2. Perishable or obnoxious property
or articles of a dangerous or harmful nature may be sold or otherwise
disposed of as soon as practicable on the best terms available.

   (D)   If the owner of any such article claims it within six months
from the date of receipt by the Police Department, the article or the
proceeds thereof shall be restored to him or her upon payment or
deduction of all proper charges.

   (E)   If no owner claims such article within six months from the
receipt thereof by the Police Department, the Police Department shall,
within two weeks thereafter, notify the finder of such fact by
registered or certified mail at his or her last-known address, and the
article or the proceeds thereof shall be turned over to the finder, upon
demand by him or her within 30 days from the expiration of the six-month
period and upon payment or deduction of all proper charges; but, if such
finder fails to demand such article or the proceeds thereof or refuses
to pay such charges within 30 days from the expiration of the six-month
period, such article or proceeds shall belong to the town. The
requirement of notification may be omitted when the value or estimated
value of the article is less than $5.

   (F)   The Police Department shall sell at public auction any articles
which it acquires as provided herein after the expiration of time for
the owner or finder to demand the same and after the time and place of
such sale and a description of the articles to be sold have been
advertised once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper having a
circulation in the town. The net proceeds from such sales and the
unclaimed net proceeds from the sales of perishable or obnoxious
property or articles of a dangerous or harmful nature shall be paid to
the Treasurer of the town, who shall deposit them in the Police Benefit
Fund, if any, of the town.

(Ord. passed 8-3-1976) Penalty, see § 10.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 255

ETHICS CODE

§ 35.15 DECLARATION OF POLICY AND PURPOSE.

   Public office is a public trust. In order for the town government to
function most efficiently, the trust of the public is critical. Public
policy developed by government officials and employees impacts every
citizen and property owner of the town, and as such, must be
consistently based on honest and fair deliberation and decisions. The
process of policy formulation and decision making must be free from
threats, favoritism, undue influence and even the appearance of
impropriety so that the confidence of the public in the town government
is maintained.

(Ord. passed 8-2-2007)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 22, page 704

§ 35.16 APPLICABILITY.

   (A)   The Code shall apply to all public town officials and town
employees whether elected or appointed, paid or unpaid.

   (B)   All of the above shall be referred to hereinafter as “persons
governed by this Code”.

   (C)   A provision of this Code shall not be applicable if it
conflicts in whole or in part with any provisions of any labor
agreement, employment contract or state statute.

(Ord. passed 8-2-2007)

§ 35.17 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   AGENCY. Any board, commission, department, authority and advisory
committee of the town.

   BUSINESS. Any entity through which business for profit or not for
profit is conducted including a corporation, company, partnership,
proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization
or self-employed person.

   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Information, whether transmitted orally or
in writing, which is obtained by reason of the public position or office
held and is of such a nature that it is not at the time of transmission
a matter of public record or public knowledge.

   FINANCIAL INTEREST. Pecuniary or material benefit accruing to a town
official or employee as a result of a contract, transaction, decision or
other matter which is, or may be, the subject of any official act or
action by or with the town except for such contracts or transactions
which by their terms and by the substance of their provisions confer the
opportunity and right to realize the accrual of similar benefits to all
persons and/or property owners similarly situated.

   GIFT.

      (1)   Anything of value in excess of $25.

      (2)   The term GIFT does not include:

         (a)   A political contribution otherwise reported as required
by law or a donation or payment as described in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§
9-333b(b)(9) or (11):

         (b)   Services provided by persons volunteering their time;

         (c)   A commercially reasonable loan made on terms not more
favorable than loans made in the ordinary course of business;

         (d)   A gift received from:

            1.   An individual’s spouse, fiancé or fiancée;

            2.   The parent, brother or sister of such spouse or such
individual; or

            3.   The child of such individual or the spouse of such
child.

         (e)   Goods or services which are provided to the town and
facilitate governmental action or functions;

         (f)   A certificate, plaque or other ceremonial award;

         (g)   Printed or recorded informational material germane to
governmental action or functions;

         (h)   An honorary degree bestowed upon a public official or
public employee by a public or private university or college;

         (i)   A meal provided at an event and/or the registration or
entrance fee to attend such an event, in which the public employee or
public official participates in his or her official capacity;

         (j)   A meal provided in the home of an individual; and

         (k)   Gift-giving occasions, generally recognized by the
public, including Christmas, Hanukkah, birthdays, the birth or adoption
of a child, weddings, First Communions, confirmations or bar/bat
mitzvahs, provided the total value of such gifts for each person for
each event shall not exceed $25 per calendar year.

   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Spouse, parent, grandparent, child, grandchild,
stepchild, sibling, stepsibling, all in-laws and/or any individual who
has a family-like relationship and/or who resides in the household.

   ON THE RECORD. A writing, signed and dated, or a directive to the
recording secretary of a meeting to note in the minutes a particular
statement.

   PERSONAL BENEFICIAL INTEREST. Any interest, other than financial,
which would affect the action of the official or employee. Membership in
or affiliation with a social, fraternal, charitable, service, education,
religious, governmental or similar non-profit organization is not deemed
to automatically create a personal interest.

   TOWN OFFICIAL, OFFICER or EMPLOYEE. An individual whether elected or
appointed, whether paid or unpaid, full or part time, including members
and employees of any agency of the town.

(Ord. passed 8-2-2007)

§ 35.18 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.

   (A)   Conflict of interest.

      (1)   A person governed by this Code shall not engage in or
participate in any business or transaction, nor have an interest, direct
or indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or
her official duties in the public interest, or would tend to impair his
or her independent judgment or action in the performance of his or her
official duties.

      (2)   A person governed by this Code shall not be financially
interested or have any personal beneficial interest, in any contract or
purchase order for any supplies, materials, equipment or contractual
services furnished to or used by the board, agency or commission of
which he or she is a member, or of which he or she is an employee.
Notwithstanding the above, no member of the Board of Selectmen and no
member of the Board of Finance shall be financially interested, or have
any personal beneficial interest, either directly or indirectly, in any
contract or purchase order for any supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services furnished to or used by any board, agency or
commission of the town.

         (a)   A town official, officer or employee shall refrain from
voting upon or otherwise participating in any matter if he or she, or a
member of his or her immediate family, has a financial or personal
interest in the transaction or contract, including, but not limited to,
the sale of real estate, material, supplies or services to the
municipality.

         (b)   Notwithstanding the prohibition in division (A)(2)(a)
above, a town official, officer or employee may vote or otherwise
participate in a matter if it involves a determination of general policy
and the interest is shared with a substantial segment of the population
of the town.

      (3)   Any public official or public employee who has a conflict of
interest, direct or indirect, in any contract, transaction or decision
within the purview of his or her official responsibilities shall
disclose that conflict of interest. Such disclosure shall disqualify the
public official or public employee from participation or deliberation in
the matter, transaction or decision. Such disclosure shall be made in
executive session of an agency at the request of the public official or
the public employee.

   (B)   Financial interest. A person governed by this Code who has a
financial or personal interest in any transaction or contract with the
town, including, but not limited to, the sale of real estate, materials,
supplies or services to the town, in which he or she may be called upon
to act in his or her official capacity shall not vote or otherwise
participate in the transaction on behalf of the town. That person shall
declare on the record that he or she has a conflict of interest that
disqualifies him or her from participating and voting.

   (C)   Town-owned property. A person governed by this Code shall not
request or permit the use of town-owned vehicles, equipment, facilities,
material or property for personal convenience or profit, except when
such town property is available to the general public as a result of a
policy adopted in the interest of the town.

   (D)   Appearance of impropriety.

      (1)   No public official or public employee shall accept a gift or
engage in private employment or render services when the gift,
employment or services:

         (a)   Are incompatible with the proper discharge of the
official duties of the public official or public employee; or

         (b)   Could tend to impair independence of judgment or action
by the public official or public employee, in the performance of his or
her official duties.

      (2)   To avoid even the appearance of impropriety or creation of a
situation that would be contrary to the declared policy and purpose of
the Code, a public official or public employee, not otherwise restrained
by the code, shall exercise care when appearing before other agencies
and shall disclose whether he or she is appearing in his or her official
capacity or as a private citizen.

(Ord. passed 8-2-2007)

TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS

   Chapter

      50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS

      51.   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING

      52.   WATER

      53.   SEWERS

CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section

General Provisions

   50.01   Automatic sprinkler systems

   50.02   Well and sanitation permits

Water and Sewer Commission

   50.15   Ordinance designating Board of Water Commissioners as sewer
authority

   50.16   Established

   50.17   Duties and responsibilities

   50.18   Income

   50.19   Effect

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 50.01 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.

   (A)   Any automatic lawn sprinkler system making use of water
provided by or through the town municipal water system shall be equipped
with a rain sensor device or switch that will automatically override the
irrigation cycle of such sprinkler system when adequate rainfall has
occurred.

   (B)   The Town Director of Public Works shall determine the method by
which an appropriate level of “adequate rainfall” will be measured and
the method by which the automatic lawn sprinkler system will be
deactivated by the rain sensor device or switch. In making such
determinations, the Director of Public Works may be guided but not
controlled by the specifications of manufacturers of said automatic lawn
sprinkler systems.

   (C)   Any person who uses water from a faucet or spigot which is not
connected to the municipal water system may apply to the Water and Sewer
Commission for a certificate evidencing such fact and, upon inquiry from
any person charged with the enforcement of such section, shall make such
certificate available to the enforcement officer.

   (D)   The provisions of this section shall apply to any automatic
lawn sprinkler system installed on or after the effective date of this
section.

(Ord. passed 6-29-2004) Penalty, see § 50.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 22, page 388

§ 50.02 WELL AND SANITATION PERMITS.

   (A)   No well or sewage disposal system shall be constructed within
the town until a written permit has been obtained from the Director of
Health or his or her duly authorized agent.

   (B)   (1)   No building permit for the construction of any building
or any addition thereto shall be issued by the Building Official, or
such other officer as may be authorized to issue building permits, until
there has been presented to such officer a written certificate, signed
by the Director of Health or his or her duly authorized agent,
indicating that the well or other water supply facilities and the sewage
disposal facilities, located on the land on which said building or
addition are to be constructed, are satisfactory.

      (2)   Reasonable fees for such permits and certificates, and for
dumping of septic tank wastes at the site authorized by the Board of
Selectmen, shall be prescribed from time to time by the Board of
Selectmen.

(Ord. passed 2-7-1968) Penalty, see § 10.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 10, page 8

WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION

§ 50.15 ORDINANCE DESIGNATING BOARD OF WATER COMMISSIONERS AS SEWER
AUTHORITY.

   (A)   There is constituted a nine member Water and Sewer Commission.
The First Selectman shall be Chairperson, and upon his or her absence or
disability the Deputy First Selectman shall have the powers and perform
the duties of the absent or disabled Chairperson, which shall include
presiding at meetings of the Commission and having the right to vote at
such meetings.

   (B)   The remaining eight members shall be appointed by the Board of
Selectmen in the manner set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5)
below.

      (1)   The remaining six members of the Board of Water
Commissioners on the effective date of this subchapter shall continue to
be members of the Commission and shall serve the terms for which they
were appointed.

      (2)   One member shall be appointed for a term to expire on the
first Monday of January, 1978.

      (3)   One member shall be appointed for a term to expire on the
first Monday of January, 1980.

      (4)   Upon expiration of the terms established by divisions (B)(2)
and (B)(3) above, the terms of appointment shall be for four years.

      (5)   The members shall serve without compensation but shall be
reimbursed for necessary expenses.

(Ord. passed 7-23-1977; Ord. passed 1-21-1979; Ord. passed 1-24-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 13, page 1; TM Volume 13, page 170, Amended; TM Volume 14,
page 77, Amended

§ 50.16 ESTABLISHED.

   Said Commission shall maintain and operate the water system of the
town, obtain plans and cost estimates for extensions and improvements to
the system, expend such funds as may be appropriated for such purposes,
provide all necessary rules and regulations in connection with the
operation of the system, prescribe the rates at which water may be sold,
perform all the duties incidental thereto, and present an annual report
and budget before each annual budget meeting of the town.

(Ord. passed 7-23-1977; Ord. passed 1-21-1979; Ord. passed 1-24-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 13, page 1; TM Volume 13, page 170, Amended; TM Volume 14,
page 77, Amended

§ 50.17 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.

   The Commission as the sewer authority of the town shall have all the
powers, authority and duties set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 103,
Revision of 1958, as it may be amended from time to time.

(Ord. passed 7-23-1977; Ord. passed 1-21-1979; Ord. passed 1-24-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 13, page 1; TM Volume 13, page 170, Amended; TM Volume 14,
page 77, Amended

§ 50.18 INCOME.

   All income derived from service provided by the water system shall be
paid to the Treasurer of the town to be credited to the account of the
Commission and to be first applied to defray the current expenses of
said water system.

(Ord. passed 7-23-1977; Ord. passed 1-21-1979; Ord. passed 1-24-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 13, page 1; TM Volume 13, page 170, Amended; TM Volume 14,
page 77, Amended

§ 50.19 EFFECT.

   The adoption of this subchapter shall not be construed to affect the
powers, authority and duties of the Town Board of Water Commissioners
which shall hereafter, pursuant to this amendment, be known as the Water
and Sewer Commission.

(Ord. passed 7-23-1977; Ord. passed 1-21-1979; Ord. passed 1-24-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 13, page 1; TM Volume 13, page 170, Amended; TM Volume 14,
page 77, Amended

CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING

Section

Regulating the Storage, Collection and Disposal of Solid Waste

   51.01   Declaration of policy

   51.02   Definitions

   51.03   License required for refuse collections

   51.04   Refuse containers

   51.05   Requirements for collection

   51.06   Collection on private roads or in locations other than town
approved roads

   51.07   Storing of refuse

   51.08   Bulky waste

   51.09   Disposal of refuse

   51.10   Source separation and recycling

   51.11   Licensing of refuse collectors; registration of vehicles

   51.12   Refusal, revocation or suspension of license

   51.13   Licensing private individuals to dispose of their own refuse

   51.14   Administration; promulgation of rules and regulations

   51.15   Refuse collector’s responsibilities and obligations

   51.16   Recycling- regulations concerning designation of recyclable
materials

   51.17   Fees for disposal of waste at the transfer station

Sanitary Landfill Tract

   51.25   Definitions

   51.26   Entry restricted

   51.27   Restrictions on motor vehicles

   51.28   Regulations of motor vehicles

   51.29   Towing of motor vehicles

Recycling

   51.40   Regulations concerning designation of recyclable materials

Fees

   51.55   Reserved

   51.56   Fee for refuse collectors

 

   51.99   Penalty

REGULATING THE STORAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE

§ 51.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.

   (A)   The accumulation, collection, removal and disposal of refuse
must be controlled by the town for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare.

   (B)   It is consequently found and declared that:

      (1)   The town is authorized by law to provide for or regulate the
collection and disposal of refuse;

      (2)   The State of Connecticut requires towns to recycle. Items
that are designated (i.e. mandated) for recycling are included in §
51.16.

      (3)   The town has a substantial interest in and responsibility
for protecting the health and safety of its inhabitants by regulating
the collection and disposal of such refuse;

      (4)   The expense of such regulation is substantial and can best
be borne, in the case of commercial, industrial and condominium owners,
by those owners and by the refuse collectors who service them; and

      (5)   The enactment of this subchapter is in furtherance of the
town’s approved solid waste management plan.

      (6)   The town has executed a municipal solid waste management
services contract with Southeastern Connecticut Regional Resources
Recovery Authority (SCRRRA), including an Amendment No. 5 to such
municipal solid waste management services contract (collectively with
such Amendment No. 5, the MSA). The MSA defines the “System” (the SCRRRA
System) to include the solid waste disposal and resource recovery
facility located in Lisbon, Connecticut and operated by Wheelabrator
Lisbon Inc. or its successors or assigns (the SCRRRA Facility) pursuant
to a solid waste disposal agreement between SCRRRA and Wheelabrator
Lisbon Inc. (the Wheelabrator agreement), and designates the SCRRRA
Facility as the “Facility” within the SCRRRA System. Pursuant to the
MSA, the town has agreed to deliver or cause to be delivered all solid
waste (as defined in the MSA) generated within the corporate boundaries
of the town to the SCRRRA System as directed by SCRRRA for ultimate
delivery to the SCRRRA Facility for disposal, subject to and in
accordance with the Wheelabrator agreement.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 6-3-2020; Ord. passed
9-7-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   BULKY WASTES. Noncombustible construction debris, and oversized bulky
items which can’t fit into a regular town size trash receptacle with the
lid closed.

   COMMERCIAL FOOD REFUSE. Includes waste from the preparation, cooking
and consumption of food, condemned food products and all refuse from the
handling, storage, preparation and sale of produce originating primarily
in commercial kitchens, stores, restaurants, food markets and factories.

   DEPARTMENT. The East Lyme Highway and Sanitation Department.

   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the town.

   HAZARDOUS WASTES. Solid and liquid wastes in the following
classifications:

      (1)   Explosives;

      (2)   Pathogenic or pathological wastes;

      (3)   Corrosive or toxic wastes;

      (4)   Radioactive wastes; and

      (5)   Medical wastes.

   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials which have been so designated by the
Director or by a regulation of the Board of Selectmen.

   REFUSE. Unwanted and discarded solid materials, but does not include:

      (1)   Liquid wastes including, but not limited to, semisolid,
liquid materials collected in a municipal sewage system or a septic
system;

      (2)   Bulky wastes;

      (3)   Household hazardous wastes;

      (4)   Any other material which may not be lawfully disposed of (in
a sanitary landfill or a resources recovery facility; or

      (5)   Recyclable materials.

   REFUSE COLLECTORS. Includes any person, firm or corporation engaged
in the business of collecting and transporting refuse, including
recyclable materials, for hire within the town.

   TOWN. The Town of East Lyme.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.03 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR REFUSE COLLECTIONS.

   (A)   All refuse accumulated in the town shall be collected, conveyed
and disposed of by the town or by persons licensed by the town in
accordance with § 51.11 to perform such work.

   (B)   No other person shall collect, convey over any street or
dispose of any refuse in the town, except that occupants of premises in
the town upon which refuse has accumulated may personally collect,
convey and dispose of such refuse at such place or places as the Board
of Selectmen or the Director may from time to time designate, subject to
the obtaining of a private permit in accordance with § 51.11. No refuse
which was not generated within the town shall be disposed of in any such
place.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.04 REFUSE CONTAINERS.

   (A)   Provision for containers. Only cans provided by the Department
will be picked up as part of town curbside garbage and recycling
collection. The town started collection with trucks with automated arms
back in the early 2000's. At that time, all residents were required to
purchase a garbage can and the town provided a recycling can free of
charge. Those original cans are now beyond their warranty. It is the
responsibility of the property owner to keep their cans in acceptable
condition. Unless the Department damages the can and/or drops it into
the hopper of the truck, the resident or business shall be responsible
for the cost of replacing a damaged can. If a resident and/or business
desires to replace a damaged can, one has gone missing, or wants an
additional can, they must request one from the Department and pay the
going rate for the can at that time. The Department may put a limitation
on the number of garbage and recycling cans that each business or
residence may have as part of the curbside collection.

   (B)   Stolen cans. The Department is not responsible if a can is
stolen. All cans have a serial number in white letters on the front of
the can, so it is the responsibility of the property owner to keep track
of the serial number to better track their cans.

   (C)   Containers for commercial food refuse. Commercial food refuse
containers may be large-covered containers designed to be mechanically
emptied into a refuse truck where collection is to be by a refuse
collector.

   (D)   Loose materials. The town shall not be obligated to collect any
loose materials as part of its curbside collection service.

   (E)   Containers not conforming to the above requirements. Containers
not conforming to the above requirements, or which may be a travel or
health hazard or nuisance will not be emptied.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR COLLECTION.

   (A)   Timing to place cans out and take them in. The property owner
shall see that the cans are placed at the side of the nearest public
road, or in the case of privately-owned property where the town by
agreement makes collections, at the side of a private road or driveway
designated by the Director, not earlier than 12 hours before the
scheduled time of collection for said road or driveway nor later than
7:00 a.m. on the scheduled collection day. The collection schedule will
be posted on the town’s website. The cans shall be placed in such a
manner that they do not constitute a travel or health hazard or
nuisance, and after the cans have been emptied, they shall be removed
from the side of said road or driveway within 12 hours after the
material therein has been collected. If the cans are not out at the time
the truck passes the property, the Department can’t guarantee that the
truck can come back until the next regularly scheduled visit. Residents
can bring their garbage and recycling to the town’s transfer station
free of charge during the transfer station’s regular hours.

   (B)   Recycling materials collected. Only approved recycling
materials can go in the recycling cans. A listing of what is allowed in
the recycling can is on the Public Works section of the town website.

   (C)   Can inspections. The Department inspects garbage and recycling
cans on a regular basis. If non-recycling materials are found in the
recycling can and/or yard waste or bulky items are overflowing from a
garbage can, the can will be flagged to not be picked up and a form will
be taped to the can advising the property owner why the can has not been
picked up. The offending items must be removed before the can will be
picked up.

   (D)   Spacing of cans. All cans must be placed approximately four
feet from any other object (another can, a car, utility pole, wall,
etc.), as the automated arms of the garbage trucks need clearance to
pick up the can. If the driver can’t pick up the can for this reason,
the Department can’t guarantee that the truck can come back until the
next regularly scheduled visit.

   (E)   All refuse collected or transported within the town shall be
carried in tightly-covered vehicles, or in tightly-covered containers in
or on such vehicles. Any refuse which is collected or transported in
open top vehicles shall be suitably covered so as to prevent scattering
litter upon the streets. All vehicles used for the collection or
transportation of refuse within the town shall be subject to the
approval of the Director or the Board of Selectmen.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.06 COLLECTION ON PRIVATE ROADS OR IN LOCATIONS OTHER THAN TOWN
APPROVED ROADS.

   (A)   Agreement. If the Department has been performing curbside
collection on a private road or in locations other than on town approved
roads, then it will continue collecting in these locations provided the
Department has received a signed agreement including the following;

      (1)   The owner of the private road and/or property has given
written permission for the town to enter onto that private property;

      (2)   If there are ever any changes to the ownership of the
private road or property, it is the responsibility of the current owner
to let the town know in writing;

      (3)   Any particular requirements for that specific location;

      (4)   To indemnify and hold the town harmless against any and all
damages to property or injuries to or death of any person or persons,
including property and employees or agents of the town and defend suits,
actions or proceedings of any kind or nature and indemnify and save
harmless the town from and against any and all damages to property or
injuries to or death of any person or persons, including property and
employees of the town, and shall defend, indemnify and save harmless the
town from and against any and all claims, demands, suits, actions or
proceedings of any kind or nature or by anyone whomsoever in any case
resulting from or arising out of acts or omissions of the owner of the
private road and/or property or its agents, employees or subcontractors.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the owner of the private road and/or
property shall not be required to indemnify and save harmless the Town
of East Lyme from and against damages to property or injuries to persons
arising out of the negligence or willful misconduct of the town or their
employees or agents; and

      (5)   To upkeep all the paved areas including plowing and de-icing
all the roads and trimming trees that stretch into the paved area when
needed. Since the owner is responsible for maintenance of the private
road or property, if the Department determines that the roads are not
passable, it may refuse to pick up the garbage and/or recycling until
the hazard is addressed. This includes a determination that the private
road and/or property has not been properly plowed and/or salted, or
there are potholes or any other road deficiencies.

   (B)   Road surface. There must be an acceptable surface course of
asphalt on the private road or property.

   (C)   Ability to turnaround. The Department needs an acceptable area
to turn their trucks around. Determination of an acceptable area to turn
their trucks around will be made by the Department.

   (D)   Not expanding this service. The town has no intention of
expanding its curbside collection service on private roads and/or
private developments that it has been collecting for up to this point.

   (E)   New private roads and developments. All new private roads
and/or private developments failing to meet town road standards as
determined by the Town of East Lyme need to provide a private contractor
to address their garbage and recycling needs.

(Ord. passed 9-7-2022)

§ 51.07 STORING OF REFUSE.

   (A)   Public places. No person shall place any refuse in any street,
alley or other public place or upon any private property, whether owned
by such person or not, within the town, except in proper containers or
otherwise properly prepared for collection or under express approval
granted by the Director. No person shall throw or deposit any refuse in
any stream or other body of water.

   (B)   Accumulation of refuse. Any uncontained accumulation of refuse
on any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited.
Failure to remove any uncontained accumulation of refuse within two days
after written notice to remove same shall be deemed a violation of this
subchapter.

   (C)   Scattering of refuse. No person shall cast, place, sweep or
deposit anywhere within the town any refuse in such a manner that it may
be carried or deposited by the elements upon or in any street, sidewalk,
alley, sewer, parkway or other public place, or into any occupied
premises. This includes dump trucks that have accidentally dropped
construction or other materials from the bed of the truck. If this
occurs, it is the responsibility of the person who dropped the debris to
clean it up or pay for the clean up.

   (D)   Hazardous wastes. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to place hazardous wastes or similarly dangerous substances
into any refuse container other than one specifically designated for
such a purpose.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.08 BULKY WASTE.

   Bulky waste may not be collected or mixed with refuse and shall be
collected and transported as the Board of Selectmen or the Director may
from time to time designate, and any applicable charge for disposal at
an approved location with the town shall be paid by the person
delivering the waste.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.09 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.

   (A)   Each refuse collector who disposes of refuse collected within
the town at the designated Southeastern Connecticut Regional Resource
Recovery Authority Facility (the SCRRRA Facility) shall, except as
provided in division (B) below, pay the town promptly when billed a
per-ton fee to be set by the Board of Selectmen from time to time.

   (B)   The town may, from time to time, in accordance with procedures
set by the Board of Selectmen or the Director, offer for sale to
licensed refuse collectors the right to dispose of refuse collected
within the town at the SCRRRA Facility at a price and on terms set by
the Board of Selectmen.

   (C)   All refuse generated in the town shall be delivered or caused
to be delivered to the SCRRRA System for so long as the MSA remains in
effect, as directed by SCRRRA and for ultimate delivery to the SCRRRA
Facility. To the extent any such refuse is not acceptable for disposal
at the SCRRRA Facility, such unacceptable refuse shall be delivered or
caused to be delivered to such other facility designated by SCRRRA.
After the MSA is no longer in effect, the Board of Selectmen shall
designate the facility for the delivery of refuse generated in the town.
The person delivering refuse to the SCRRRA Facility or other designated
place shall pay any applicable disposal charge. All regulations of the
town and any direction or designation by the Board of Selectmen or the
Director about the disposal of refuse generated in the town shall be
consistent with this division.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 6-3-2020; Ord. passed
9-7-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.10 SOURCE SEPARATION AND RECYCLING.

   (A)   Separation of materials; collection. Recyclable materials for
which collection service is provided by the town shall be separated from
solid waste and placed at the curb or other designated collection place
for collection on the days designated by the Director. Recyclable
materials for which collection service is not provided by the town shall
be separated from solid waste and disposed of at an appropriate
facility.

   (B)   Separation at dumpsters. Multi-family dwelling units and each
commercial, industrial or other nonresidential entity not utilizing
curbside collection shall provide, or shall require its refuse collector
to provide separate dumpsters or other collection containers for refuse
and for all recyclable material accumulated on the premises. Containers
shall be placed immediately adjacent to each other and labeled as to the
material intended for each with stenciling in a prominent location.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.11 LICENSING OF REFUSE COLLECTORS; REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.

   (A)   Licensing authority designated. The Director shall be the
licensing authority for refuse collectors, and the registering authority
for vehicles and containers. The Director shall grant a license within a
reasonable time following the filing of proper application and payment
of the prescribed fee unless the Director finds one or more of the
following conditions to prevail:

      (1)   The applicant has been irresponsible in the conduct of
refuse collection and hauling operations within the town;

      (2)   The applicant lacks suitable equipment with which to collect
refuse in a safe and nuisance-free manner and in compliance with this
subchapter; and/or

      (3)   The applicant or the refuse collector to which it is the
successor was previously licensed and its license was revoked in
accordance with this subchapter.

    (B)   License required. Each refuse collector shall annually, on or
before July 1, apply for a license from the Director on such form as the
Director shall prescribe to engage in the business of refuse collection
in the town.

   (C)   Registration of vehicles, containers. Each licensed refuse
collector shall obtain a separate registration for each vehicle it
operates within the town. When a vehicle is employed to transport more
than one container, each container to be transported shall require a
registration. Registrations shall not be transferable from vehicle to
vehicle nor container to container; however, the Director may allow such
temporary transfer of registrations in hardship situations, such as a
temporary breakdown of an individually registered vehicle.

   (D)   License term; fee; renewal. All licenses shall be issued for a
term not to exceed one year and shall be renewable on or before July 1
of each year. The license fee shall be established by the Board of
Selectmen by regulation from time to time.

   (E)   Display of license. The license issued shall be conspicuously
displayed on the left front of the body of each vehicle or container so
licensed, or as may be directed.

   (F)   Identification of vehicles and containers. Each licensee shall
prominently display at all times on each registered vehicle or container
in letters at least four inches in height its name, license number and
telephone number.

   (G)   Licenses nontransferable. Licenses are not transferable. When
any licensee shall sell, transfer, all or part of its route to any
refuse collector not licensed in the town, it shall, at least seven days
before the date of sale or transfer, notify the Director, in writing, of
its intent to sell and the transferee shall, at the same time, make
application for a license to operate in the town.

   (H)   Routes serviced. As a prerequisite to the issuance or renewal
of any license, the refuse collector must furnish to the Director the
following:

      (1)   A complete list of all stops, container size and frequency
of collection;

      (2)   Certificate of insurance; and

      (3)   The current fee as designated by the Board of Selectmen.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.12 REFUSAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.

   (A)   General. Failure to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter or any regulation or directive issued by the Board of
Selectmen or the Director pursuant to this subchapter or any such
regulation shall be a grounds for refusal, revocation or suspension of a
license in addition to any other penalty imposed by this subchapter or
any other law.

   (B)   Notice required. Refusal, revocation or suspension shall only
become effective five calendar days after receipt of written notice from
the Director.

   (C)   Request for review; filing; effect of failure to file. If a
refuse collector objects to the Director’s action described in division
(B) above to refuse, revoke or suspend its license, it may within five
calendar days of receipt of said notice, file a written request for
review with the First Selectman. Failure to timely file such request for
review shall make the Director’s action final and binding upon the
collector.

   (D)   Request for review; effect of timely filing. Timely filing of
such request for review shall operate as an automatic stay of the
Director’s action.

   (E)   Special Appeals Board; hearing. The First Selectman shall
appoint forthwith a Special Appeals Board consisting of two electors of
the town and two licensed refuse collectors and a member of the Board of
Selectmen, and said Board shall then within 15 days hear and decide the
matter. Such hearing shall be private except, however, that such hearing
may be public if so requested, in writing, by the refuse collector. The
decision of said Board shall be final and binding upon the collector.

   (F)   Names, addresses of customers to be furnished upon revocation
or suspension. Whenever a collector’s license is refused, revoked or
suspended, it shall furnish the Director within 24 hours the names and
addresses of its customers.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.13 LICENSING PRIVATE INDIVIDUALS TO DISPOSE OF THEIR OWN REFUSE.

   Occupants of premises in the town must apply to the Director for a
permit, to be able to dispose of refuse accumulated on such premises. A
permit may be obtained from the Director by applying on such form as the
Director shall prescribe. The permit shall be displayed in such manner
as the Director shall prescribe. Such permit may be revoked or suspended
for the reasons and in the manner prescribed for commercial licenses,
and appeals therefrom may be taken in the same manner.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.14 ADMINISTRATION; PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.

   (A)   Director responsible. The Director shall administer the
licensing of any refuse collector engaged in the collecting and
transporting of refuse in the town.

   (B)   Insurance. The Director shall, when considering an application
for a refuse collector license, including renewal, ascertain that the
applicant has adequate liability insurance.

   (C)   Additional rules. The Board of Selectmen may promulgate
regulations and the Director may promulgate additional rules on all
collection and disposal procedures from time to time as are deemed
proper, but such rules shall not be inconsistent with this subchapter.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.15 REFUSE COLLECTOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS.

   (A)   Charges. Each refuse collector shall pay all charges imposed by
§ 51.09, all charges for disposal rights awarded to the refuse collector
or assigned to the refuse collector pursuant to this subchapter or
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and the license fee imposed by §
51.11, and shall comply with all other requirements of this subchapter
and such regulations.

   (B)   Recyclable materials. Each refuse collector shall collect
recyclable materials from each of its customers in the manner specified
in this subchapter. Any refuse collector who has reason to believe that
a person from whom it collects solid waste has discarded recyclable
material with such solid waste in violation of this subchapter shall
promptly notify the Director of the alleged violation. Upon the request
of the Director, a collector shall provide a warning notice, by tag or
other means, to any person suspected by the collector or the Director of
violating separation requirements. A collector shall also assist the
town to identify any person responsible for creating loads containing
significant quantities of recyclable materials mixed with solid waste.

   (C)   Construction and maintenance of vehicles and containers. All
vehicles registered to collect and transport refuse shall be maintained
free of obnoxious odors and accumulated refuse. Any such vehicle shall
be of a closed construction. A container utilized primarily for
non-liquid refuse need not be of watertight construction, but shall be
completely enclosed.

   (D)   Delinquent customers. A refuse collector may refuse to provide
collection service to any customer who is more than 30 days delinquent
in the payment of the refuse collector’s fee. If the delinquent customer
shall discharge its delinquency, the refuse collector shall immediately
restore collection services to the customer.

   (E)   Responsibility to provide service; refusal to provide. Refuse
collectors are hereby made jointly responsible for providing collection
service to any resident of the town. If any commercial, industrial or
condominium customer of the town shall be refused collection services
without reasonable grounds or is dissatisfied with collection service,
the customer may make application to the Director, who shall have the
right to direct said collector to provide service or who shall have the
right to designate another licensed refuse collector to provide refuse
collection service and the collector so selected shall comply with the
Director’s designation. In making such designation, the Director shall
give primary consideration to those collectors who service customers in
the same or a contiguous locality.

   (F)   Designation of collector to provide service. In the event
refuse collection service is not provided, the Director shall designate
a licensed refuse collector or collectors to provide refuse collection
service in the geographical area affected, and such collector or
collectors shall comply with the Director’s designation.

   (G)   Customers’ containers. Refuse collectors shall leave their
customers’ containers in a neat, upright position and off the road.

   (H)   Spilled refuse. Refuse collectors shall clean up refuse that
may have spilled when carrying or transferring refuse.

   (I)   List of rates. Each refuse collector shall furnish to its
customers, upon request, a list of rates for the various services
provided.

(Ord. effective 8-15-1995; Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective
10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

§ 51.16 RECYCLING - REGULATIONS CONCERNING DESIGNATION OF RECYCLABLE
MATERIALS.

   (A)   Pursuant to the §§ 51.01 through 51.14, the following
regulations are enacted by the Board of Selectmen, to become effective
on publication.

   (B)   The following materials are designated as recyclable materials,
which shall be separated from solid waste and shall be set out for
collection or delivered to a collection point as provided by the these
regulations:

      (1)   Cardboard;

      (2)   Glass food and beverage containers;

      (3)   Leaves and other yard waste;

      (4)   Metal food and beverage containers;

      (5)   Newspaper and magazines;

      (6)   Office paper;

      (7)   Scrap metal;

      (8)   Storage batteries; and

      (9)   Waste oil.

   (C)   The above terms shall have the meanings given them in the
Connecticut Regulations of State Agencies, § 22a-241b-1.

(Ord. passed 9-7-2022)

Editor's note:

   TM Volume 17, page 396

§ 51.17 FEES FOR DISPOSAL OF WASTE AT THE TRANSFER STATION.

   The Board of Selectmen is the governing body that sets the fee
schedule at the town's Transfer Station on Roxbury Road. The Board of
Selectman can update that schedule at any time by a majority vote. The
schedule of fees as of the effective date of the current version of this
subchapter is posted at the Roxbury Road Transfer Station and on the
Public Works section of the town website.

(Ord. passed 9-7-2022; Ord. passed 4-16-2025)

Editor's note:

   TM Volume 16, page 265; TM Volume 20, page 237 (#3); TM Volume 20,
page 239 (#7);

    TM Volume 20, page 240 (#8); TM Volume 21, page 101 (#9); TM Volume
21, page 157;

    TM Volume 22, page 79; TM Volume 22, page 248; TM Volume 22, page
261

SANITARY LANDFILL TRACT

§ 51.25 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   QUARRY AREA. The portion of the sanitary landfill tract lying west of
a line running north and south and passing through the gate on the old
quarry road. The QUARRY AREA contains the quarry and the standpipe water
reservoir.

   SANITARY LANDFILL TRACT. The entire tract of land owned by the town
and lying north of Roxbury Road and west of Riverview Road, and includes
all portions of that tract whether or not actually used as part of the
sanitary landfill operation, and the area around the standpipe water
reservoir.

(Ord. passed 11-7-1974; Ord. passed 9-21-1975)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 44; TM Volume 12, page 142

§ 51.26 ENTRY RESTRICTED.

   (A)   No person except one of the following may go into the sanitary
landfill tract for any purpose:

      (1)   A resident or taxpayer of the town;

      (2)   A guest or member of the immediate family of a resident or
taxpayer of the town;

      (3)   A town, state or federal official engaged in government
business;

      (4)   A person engaged in business with or for the town; or

      (5)   A person engaged in a business which involves disposing of
solid waste originating in the town.

   (B)   No person except one of the following may go into the quarry
area for any purpose:

      (1)   A town, state or federal official engaged in government
business;

      (2)   A person engaged in business with or for the town; or

      (3)   A person engaged in a business which involves disposing of
septic tank waste originating within the town.

(Ord. passed 11-7-1974; Ord. passed 9-21-1975) Penalty, see § 51.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 44; TM Volume 12, page 142

§ 51.27 RESTRICTIONS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.

   Except for town, state or federal motor vehicles or motor vehicles of
persons engaged in business with or for the town, or motor vehicles of
persons engaged in a business which involves disposing of solid waste
originating within the town, no motor vehicle may be brought into,
operated in or parked in the sanitary landfill tract unless such vehicle
is registered in the name of a natural person who is a resident or
taxpayer of the town, and unless such motor vehicle carries a clearly
displayed marker or identification issued in accordance with regulations
to be adopted by the Board of Selectmen.

(Ord. passed 11-7-1974; Ord. passed 9-21-1975) Penalty, see § 51.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 44; TM Volume 12, page 142

§ 51.28 REGULATIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES.

   Any vehicle which is authorized under § 51.27 to be brought into and
parked in the sanitary landfill tract shall be operated and parked only
in accordance with regulations to be adopted by the Board of Selectmen,
and shall be removed prior to the daily closing of the tract.

(Ord. passed 11-7-1974; Ord. passed 9-21-1975)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 44; TM Volume 12, page 142

§ 51.29 TOWING OF MOTOR VEHICLES.

   In order to eliminate congestion, permit orderly conduct of the
sanitary landfill operation and furnish security to the equipment and
fixtures of the town located in the sanitary landfill tract, the town
constables and the state police are authorized to remove and tow away,
or have removed or towed away by any commercial towing service, any
motor vehicle which is brought into, operated in or parked in the
sanitary landfill tract in violation of this subchapter and regulations
to be adopted by the Board of Selectmen. Motor vehicles so towed away
shall be stored at the expense of the owner and may be claimed by the
owner upon payment of storage and towing fees as determined by the Board
of Selectmen by regulations.

(Ord. passed 11-7-1974; Ord. passed 9-21-1975)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 44; TM Volume 12, page 142

RECYCLING

§ 51.40 REGULATIONS CONCERNING DESIGNATION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.

   (A)   Pursuant to the §§ 51.01 through 51.14, the following
regulations are enacted by the Board of Selectmen, to become effective
on publication.

   (B)   The following materials are designated as recyclable materials,
which shall be separated from solid waste and shall be set out for
collection or delivered to a collection point as provided by the these
regulations:

      (1)   Cardboard;

      (2)   Glass food and beverage containers;

      (3)   Leaves and other yard waste;

      (4)   Metal food and beverage containers;

      (5)   Newspaper and magazines;

      (6)   Office paper;

      (7)   Scrap metal;

      (8)   Storage batteries; and

      (9)   Waste oil.

   (B)   The above terms shall have the meanings given them in the
Connecticut Regulations of State Agencies, § 22a-241b-1.

(Ord. passed 12-8-1990)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 17, page 396

FEES

§ 51.55 RESERVED.

§ 51.56 FEE FOR REFUSE COLLECTORS.

   Pursuant to the authority granted to the Board of Selectmen, the
following registration fee for refuse collectors is established: $75 per
year.

(Ord. passed 11-21-1988)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 16, page 266

§ 51.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 10.99.

   (B)   Any generator of refuse who violates the terms of §§ 51.01
through 51.16 shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense, in
addition to any other penalty imposable hereunder. Refuse placed out for
collection not in accordance with §§ 51.01 through 51.16 and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto may not be collected in the discretion of the
Director or the Board of Selectmen.

   (C)   Any refuse collector who collects refuse in the town without
the license required by § 51.09, or who knowingly mixes refuse with
recyclable materials, or who otherwise violates §§ 51.01 through 51.16
or any regulation or directive issued by the Board of Selectmen or the
Director pursuant to §§ 51.01 through 51.16 or any such regulation,
shall be fined not more than $100 for each such offense.

   (D)   Each violation shall be a separate and distinct offense and, in
the case of a continuing violation, each day’s continuance thereof shall
be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense. In addition, the
Director is authorized to apply to a Judge of the Superior Court for a
temporary and permanent injunction against a continuing or repeated
violation of §§ 51.01 through 51.16.

   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, the town shall have the right
to bring a civil action to recover any amounts due to the town from any
refuse collector for violation of §§ 51.01 through 51.16 or any
regulation or directive issued by the Board of Selectmen or the Director
pursuant to §§ 51.01 through 51.16 or any such regulation, or for
amounts due from any refuse collector who purchased from the town the
right to dispose of refuse or who took an assignment of any such right,
together with interest and attorney’s fees as permitted by law.

(Ord. passed 11-7-1974; Ord. passed 9-21-1975; Ord. effective 8-15-1995;
Ord. passed 2-22-1996; Ord. effective 10-15-1997; Ord. passed 3-1-1998;
Ord. passed 9-7-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 44; TM Volume 12, page 142

   TM Volume 21, page 44; TM Volume 21, page 197; TM Volume 21, page
425; TM Volume 21, page 485

CHAPTER 52: WATER

Section

General Provisions

   52.01   Authorization of the town to construct a water system

   52.02   Agreements with the town for water service

   52.03   Water emergency conservation

   52.04   Water connection charges

   52.05   Water assessments

   52.06   Water benefit charges

Water Rates and Charges Generally

   52.20   Water rates generally

   52.21   Various water charges

 

   52.99   Penalty

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 52.01 AUTHORIZATION OF THE TOWN TO CONSTRUCT A WATER SYSTEM.

   The provision of House Bill No. 863 as passed by the General Assembly
of 1941, authorizing the town to construct a water system, is adopted.

(Res. passed 10-6-1941)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 5, page 327

§ 52.02 AGREEMENTS WITH THE TOWN FOR WATER SERVICE.

   (A)   To permit owners of real property, which property abuts on
existing water lines belonging to said town, to connect with and draw
water from said lines; provided, however, that each such property owner,
applying for such permission, shall enter into an agreement with said
town, which agreement shall provide, in addition to such other
provisions as the Selectmen may deem necessary, the following:

      (1)   Said property owner shall pay all charges incurred in
connecting with said water line and a reasonable amount for the water
used by said property owner;

      (2)   Said town shall be relieved of all and any liability or
obligation in the event of the failure by said town to furnish water;

      (3)   Said town may terminate said agreement to furnish water upon
30 days’ written notice; and

      (4)   Any authority granted by said Selectmen and all agreements
entered into by said Board of Selectmen shall terminate at such time as
the said town by ordinance, or otherwise, shall establish a Board of
Water Commissioners.

   (B)   The Crescent Beach Association be considered an individual and
allowed to connect with the water system for fire hydrants for fire
protection only.

   (C)   The Auditor shall make an annual report of the income and
expenditures in connection with said water system and that said report
shall include the name of each property owner attached to said water
line and the amount paid by each property owner attached thereto.

(Res. passed 3-5-1945)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 6, page 8

§ 52.03 WATER EMERGENCY CONSERVATION.

   (A)   The Water and Sewer Commission shall monitor the town’s
available water supplies to ensure that a flow of water is provided
which will be adequate to:

      (1)   Meet the health and sanitation requirements of those
residents of the town who are supplied by water from the town’s water
system;

      (2)   Provide sufficient firefighting capacity; and

      (3)   Provide a reserve sufficient to meet the foregoing
requirements and meet such emergencies and contingencies as may exist
from time to time.

   (B)   If the Water and Sewer Commission determines that the amount of
available water supplies is below an amount sufficient to meet the
requirements of division (A) above, or that weather and hydrological
conditions are such that their continued existence threatens to reduce
the amount of available water supplies below an amount sufficient to
meet the requirements of division (A) above, it may request the Board of
Selectmen to declare a water supply emergency.

   (C)   The Board of Selectmen may, after notice and a public hearing,
declare that a water supply emergency exists and may impose any of the
water conservation measures and restrictions set out in division (D)
below. Such restrictions and measures shall be subject to the exceptions
set out in division (G) below. Notice of the public hearing shall be by
publication of the request for a water supply emergency and the possible
conservation measures and restrictions and the time and place of the
hearing in a newspaper having a general circulation in the town at least
three days before the date of such hearing.

   (D)   Upon a declaration by the Board of Selectmen that a water
supply emergency exists, it may impose the following water conservation
restrictions, in such combinations and at such times of the day or year
as it deems necessary or desirable, regarding the use of water from the
town’s water system:

      (1)   Prohibiting the sprinkling, watering or irrigation of lawns,
gardens, plants, vines, vegetables, flowers or any other vegetation;

      (2)   Prohibiting the washing of motor vehicles, boats or
trailers;

      (3)   Prohibiting the filling or cleaning of swimming and wading
pools;

      (4)   Prohibiting the cleaning of outdoor surfaces of all
buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways and other outdoor
surfaces;

      (5)   Prohibiting the service of water to customers of public
restaurants except at the specific request of such customers;

      (6)   Prohibiting the use of outdoor spigots or faucets or
connections for any purpose whatsoever;

      (7)   Imposing a “drought surcharge” at a flat rate for any water
used in excess of amounts specified by the Board of Selectmen;

      (8)   Requiring a reduction in the amount of water used by all
residents and businesses connected to the town’s water system, and
imposing a “drought surcharge” at a flat rate for any water used in
excess of the reduced amount specified by the Board of Selectmen;

      (9)   Prohibiting the use of water for business and industrial
purposes in excess of an amount specified by the Board of Selectmen,
except that businesses concerned with public health and welfare and food
service or manufacture may, upon approval of the town’s Director of
Health, continue to use an amount of water necessary to meet the
ordinary requirements of such businesses; and

      (10)   Rationing of water by reducing its supply to individual
residential or business structures.

   (E)   (1)   Notice of the restrictions imposed by the Board of
Selectmen shall be published in a newspaper having a general circulation
in the town at least three days before the effective date of such
restrictions, and may be promulgated by such other means as the Board of
Selectmen deems desirable.

      (2)   Weekends in July and August, no residential outside water
use from Friday midnight to Sunday midnight, no washing cars, boats,
house, watering lawns and the like.

   (F)   If at any time after the imposing of restrictions the Board of
Selectmen deems it necessary to impose restrictions in addition to those
previously imposed, it may do so after a public hearing noticed in
accordance with the provisions of division (C) above. Any additional
restrictions adopted by the Board of Selectmen shall be published in
accordance with the provisions of division (E) above and may be
promulgated by such other means as the Board of Selectmen deems
desirable.

   (G)   (1)   (a)   The restrictions set forth in division (D) above
shall not apply to any use of water necessary to maintain an adequate
level of health or sanitation standards, as determined by the town’s
Director of Health, for any persons using water from the town’s system.
Any of such persons who consider that the restrictions imposed upon them
adversely affect their health or sanitation may make application for a
certificate of exemption from the town’s Director of Health.

         (b)   The Director of Health, after considering the
circumstances of such persons and applying the standards necessary for
the preservation of public health, may issue a certificate of exemption
from the restrictions set forth in this section and shall notify the
Water and Sewer Commission of any such exemptions.

      (2)   The restrictions set forth in division (D) above shall not
apply to any firefighting or civil defense emergency.

   (H)   Any person who uses water during a water supply emergency from
an outdoor faucet or spigot which is not connected to the town’s water
system may apply to the Water and Sewer Commission for a certificate
evidencing such fact and, upon inquiry from any person charged with the
enforcement of such regulations, shall make such certificate available
to the enforcement officer.

   (I)   Upon a determination by the Water and Sewer Commission that the
water supplies available to the town’s water system are such that a
water supply emergency is no longer necessary or may be modified, it
shall notify the Board of Selectmen, which shall publish a notice of
termination of the water supply emergency or modifications of
restrictions imposed, in a newspaper having a substantial circulation
within the town, and may promulgate such notice by other means that it
deems desirable.

   (J)   (1)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting the
taking of any action which may be necessary to ensure the safe and
secure operation of the town’s water system in the interval between the
occurrence of an event giving rise to a water supply emergency and the
imposition of any water conservation measures or restrictions by the
Board of Selectmen.

      (2)   The Water and Sewer Commission, or its Chairperson or the
Director of Utilities, shall take such action as may be necessary to
ensure the safe and secure operation of the town’s water system during
such intervals.

(Ord. passed 11-8-1986; Ord. passed 6-18-2003; Ord. passed 1-7-2020)
Penalty, see § 52.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 16, page 31

§ 52.04 WATER CONNECTION CHARGES.

   (A)   There are imposed connection charges upon the owners of
property in any extension area, as from time to time, has been or shall
be created, when such property owner requests that a connection of the
water system be made to his or her property line at the expense of the
town.

   (B)   The connection charge shall be due and payable within 30 days
from the time that the property owner is billed by the Town Water
Department.

   (C)   The rate of connection charges shall be as follows:

      (1)   For each such property containing not more than one
single-family dwelling requiring for adequate service a three
fourths-inch pipe from the main: the average cost, as determined from
time to time by the Board of Water Commissioners, of all direct and
indirect expenses incurred by the town, or any agency thereof, in making
connections for properties of this class;

      (2)   For each such property not described in division (C)(1)
above, the actual costs incurred by the town, or any agency thereof, in
making the connection; and

      (3)   In addition to the foregoing, there shall be imposed upon
each such property, an additional connection charge in an amount
determined by the foregoing schedule for each connection after the first
connection to said property.

   (D)   The Board of Water Commissioners shall determine the size pipe
required for adequate service based upon the volume of water likely to
be used, the pressure requirements and the nature of the use.

   (E)   From the time that any connection charge becomes due and
payable, it shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum until paid.
The connection charge shall, at the time it becomes due and payable,
become a lien upon the property. Any such lien shall be liable to be
foreclosed in the same manner as if it were a mortgage on such land in
favor of the town. The Water and Sewer Commission shall have authority
and responsibility to foreclose any such lien in the name of the town.

   (F)   Such liens shall not continue to exist for a period longer than
one year after the connection charge becomes due and payable, unless
within that period a certificate signed by the First Selectman or his or
her designee describing the premises upon which the lien exists, the
reason on account of which it is claimed, and the amount claimed by the
town as a lien shall be filed in the town land records. Any such lien
shall cease to exist whenever a certificate discharging the same signed
by the First Selectman or his or her designee shall be filed in the town
land records. Such liens shall be discharged by the First Selectman or
his or her designee upon payment of such unpaid connection charges,
interest (as set forth in division (E) above) and a lien fee which shall
be an amount which is equal to the sum of a $5 administrative fee and
the amount charged by the Town Clerk for recording and releasing such
lien.

(Ord. passed 3-22-1979; Ord. passed 11-23-1980 ; Ord. passed 1-7-2020)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 11, page 112, 133; TM Volume 13, page 197, Amended; TM
Volume 14, page 50, Amended

§ 52.05 WATER ASSESSMENTS.

   (A)   Whenever the Board of Selectmen shall determine that it may be
advisable to make an extension or improvement to the town water system,
it may direct the Board of Water Commissioners to obtain plans and cost
estimates therefore.

   (B)   Upon the receipt of such plans and cost estimates and if in
view thereof it appears that such extension or improvement is necessary
or desirable, the Board of Selectmen shall vote to proceed with such
extension or improvement, shall take all steps necessary in accordance
with the Charter to obtain funds for such extension or improvement and
shall direct the Board of Water Commissioners to prepare estimates of
and procedures for assessing benefits to the properties which are to be
benefitted.

   (C)   The Board of Water Commissioners shall thereupon prepare a
report setting forth the method of assessing benefits and the amount of
each such assessment.

   (D)   Within 30 days after receipt of said report, the Board of
Selectmen shall either return said report to the Board of Water
Commissioners for amendment or shall proceed with an ordinance assessing
benefits.

   (E)   (1)   There is created a Water Assessment Board of Appeals,
consisting of five electors of the town who shall be appointed by the
Board of Selectmen, two members shall be appointed for terms to expire
on the first Monday of January 1972 and three members shall be appointed
for terms to expire on the first Monday of January 1974. Upon expiration
of said terms, all terms of appointment shall be four years.

      (2)   Within 30 days after notice has been sent by U.S. mail,
postage prepaid, to each owner of property benefitted, which notice will
include the amount of the assessment against such property, any such
property owner may appeal from said assessment to the Water Assessment
Board of Appeals by filing written notice of such appeal with said Board
of Appeals. Said notice may be filed at the office of the Board of
Selectmen. Forms for said notice may be prescribed by said Board of
Appeals.

      (3)   Said Board of Appeals shall assign a place and time for a
hearing on said appeal. Said hearing shall be held not later than 60
days after the filing of said notice, and notice of said hearing shall
be given by mailing written notice thereof to said property owners by
U.S. mail, postage prepaid, not less than 15 days before the date of
said hearing.

      (4)   Said Board of Appeals may increase or decrease the
assessment against the subject property if it shall appear to the Board
that the assessment was erroneous, or that the nature of the subject
property is such that a redetermination of the assessment would be
equitable.

      (5)   Said Board of Appeals shall send notice of its action to
said property owners by U.S. mail, postage prepaid, within 60 days after
said hearing.

   (F)    Any property owner who has prosecuted an appeal to the Water
Assessment Board of Appeals may take an appeal from the action of said
Board of Appeals to the Superior Court for the Judicial District of New
London within 30 days after the mailing of the notice of its action by
said Board of Appeals.

   (G)   (1)   The assessments of benefits shall become final upon
completion of its duties by the Water Assessment Board of Appeals and
shall be recorded in a water assessment book in the office of the Town
Clerk. When any owner of property shall make use of the water main
unless otherwise provided in the ordinance assessing benefits, the
assessment of benefits applicable to said property shall become due and
payable, together with interest at the rate of 12% per annum for the
period from the date said assessment became final until the date of
payment, together with any connection charge or similar charge then in
effect. The assessments of benefits shall thereupon become liens upon
the property against which they are made. Any such lien shall be liable
to be foreclosed in the same manner as if it were a mortgage on such
land in favor of the town. Such liens shall not continue to exist for a
period longer than one year after the assessment becomes due and payable
unless within that period a certificate signed by the First Selectman or
his or her designee describing the premises on which such lien exists,
the work on account of which it is claimed and the amount claimed by the
town as the lien shall be filed in the town land records. Any such lien
shall cease to exist whenever a certificate discharging the same signed
by the First Selectman or his or her designee shall be filed in the town
land records. Such lien shall be discharged by the First Selectman or
his or her designee upon payment of such unpaid assessment, interest as
set forth herein and a lien fee which shall be an amount which is equal
to the sum of a $5 administrative fee and the amount charged by the Town
Clerk for recording and releasing such lien.

      (2)   The Water and Sewer Commission shall have authority and
responsibility to foreclose any such lien in the name of the town.

   (H)   For purposes of this section, the term PROPERTY OWNER shall be
deemed to mean each person having a property interest in the premises as
disclosed by the town land records.

(Ord. passed 3-22-1979; Ord. passed 11-23-1980; Ord. passed 1-7-2020)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 11 page 110, 133; TM Amended

   TM Volume 10, TM Volume 11 Amended; TM Volume 13, page 195, Amended;

   TM Volume 14, page 51, Amended

§ 52.06 WATER BENEFIT CHARGES.

   (A)   (1)   There is imposed a benefit charge upon the owner or
owners of property, in any extension area, as from time to time has been
or shall be created, when such property abuts a street within which a
water main has been laid at the expense of anyone other than the town.

      (2)   The benefit charge shall be due and payable at the time of
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or at the time that the Town
Water and Sewer Commission supplies water to the distribution main,
whichever occurs later.

      (3)   Notice of such benefit charges shall be filed on the land
records in the office of the Town Clerk.

   (B)   The rates of benefit charges shall be as follows:

 

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------
  For each such property containing not more than one single-family dwelling, requiring for adequate service a 3/4-inch pipe from the main   $700
  For each such property requiring for adequate service a 1-inch pipe from the main                                                          $850
  For each such property requiring for adequate service a 1-1/2-inch pipe from the main                                                      $1,700
  For each such property requiring for adequate service a 2-inch pipe from the main                                                          $2,100
  For each such property requiring for adequate service a 4-inch pipe from the main                                                          $4,200
  For each such property requiring for adequate service a 6-inch pipe from the main                                                          $7,000
  For each such property requiring for adequate service an 8-inch pipe from the main                                                         $10,000
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------

 

   (C)   In addition to the foregoing benefit charges, there shall be
imposed upon owners of property in any such extension area:

      (1)   Where an additional connection to the water main is made, a
charge in accordance with the schedule of rates set out in division (B)
above; and

      (2)   Where property previously charged makes such use of the
water main that it requires for adequate service a pipe larger than that
for which the property was charged, a charge equal to the difference
between the previous charge and the rate set out in division (B) above
for the larger pipe actually required.

   (D)   An unmetered fire connection shall not be a connection within
the meaning of this section.

   (E)   From the time that any connection charge becomes due and
payable, it shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum until paid.
The connection charge shall, at the time it becomes due and payable,
become a lien upon the property. Any such lien shall be liable to be
foreclosed in the same manner as if it were a mortgage on such land in
favor of the town. The Water and Sewer Commission shall have authority
and responsibility to foreclose any such lien in the name of the town.

   (F)   Such liens shall not continue to exist for a period longer than
one year after the charge becomes due and payable unless within that
period a certificate signed by the First Selectman or his or her
designee describing the premises on which such lien exists, the reason
on account of which it is claimed, and the amount claimed by the town as
a lien shall be filed in the town lands records. Any such lien shall
cease to exist whenever a certificate discharging the same signed by the
First Selectman or his or her designee shall be filed in the town land
records. Such liens shall be discharged by the First Selectman or his or
her designee upon payment of such unpaid benefit charges, interest (as
set forth in division (E) above) and a lien fee which shall be an amount
which is equal to the sum of a $5 administrative fee and the amount
charged by the Town Clerk for recording and releasing such lien.

(Ord. passed 3-22-1979; Ord. passed 11-23-1980; Ord. passed 6-1-2004 ;
Ord. passed 1-7-2020)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 13, page 198, Amended; TM Volume 14, page 50; TM Volume 22,
page 383, Amended

WATER RATES AND CHARGES GENERALLY

§ 52.20 WATER RATES GENERALLY.

   (A)   All rates charged for water supplied by the town shall be and
remain a lien upon the buildings and land in connection with which said
water shall have been used by the owner or occupant thereof until such
rates, interest, shut-off charges and lien fees have been paid; and the
Water Commission shall have authority and responsibility to foreclose
such liens in the name of the town.

   (B)   Such lien shall not continue to exist for a period longer than
one year after said rates become due and payable unless within that
period a certificate signed by the First Selectman or his or her
designee describing the premises on which such lien exists, the reason
on account of which it is claimed, and the amount claimed by the town as
a lien shall be filed in the town land records. Any such lien shall
cease to exist whenever a certificate discharging the same signed by the
First Selectman or his or her designee shall be filed in the town land
records.

   (C)   Any such lien shall be discharged by the First Selectman or his
or her designee upon payment of such unpaid water rates, interest at 12%
per annum upon the unpaid water rates from the date of filing, a
shut-off fee (as set forth in division (D) below) and a lien fee, which
shall be an amount which is equal to the sum of a $5 administrative fee
and the amount charged by the Town Clerk for the recording and release
of such lien.

   (D)   The Water Commission shall have the right to shut off water
from the premises where the water rates remain unpaid 30 days after date
of mailing of bill to the owner or occupant. If so turned off, the water
shall not be turned on again without payment of all unpaid rates,
interest, lien fees and a shut-off fee in such amount as shall from time
to time be established by the Commission, said amount to reasonably
reflect the costs incurred in making said shut-off and resumption of
service.

(Ord. passed 11-14-1962; Ord. passed 2-6-1975; Ord. passed 3-22-1979)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 8, page 304; TM Volume 12, page 73, Amended; TM Volume 13,
page 196, Amended

§ 52.21 VARIOUS WATER CHARGES.

   (A)   The Town Water and Sewer Commission may impose the following
charges upon the owner or owners of property which is served with water
by the Commission; annual private hydrant charge; annual private
sprinkler charge; meter deposit; frozen meter repair or replacement fee;
fee for installation and disconnection of meters for seasonal
residences; meter test fees; fee for inspection of inground water
service pipelines being installed in subdivisions; charge for labor
provided to owner at owners request for corrections or repairs that are
owner’s responsibility; charge for sale of materials held in stock by
Water Department.

   (B)   The meter deposit described in division (A) above shall be due
and payable on or before the date that the Commission provides water
service to the owner or owners of property requesting such service. All
other charges described in division (A) above shall be due and payable
when the property owner is billed by the Commission.

   (C)   The amount of such charges shall be established and from time
to time revised by the Town Water and Sewer Commission, and shall
reasonably reflect the costs incurred by the Commission in providing
such services and materials. The Commission shall establish and revise
such charges in accordance with the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §
7-239, as amended from time to time.

   (D)   From the time that any fee or charge described in this section
becomes due and payable, it shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per
annum until paid, unless paid within 30 days from the date it becomes
due and payable. Any such fee or charge shall, at the time it becomes
due and payable, become a lien upon the property. Any such lien shall be
liable to be foreclosed in the same manner provided by law, for the
foreclosure of tax liens.

   (E)   Any such lien shall not continue to exist for a period longer
than one year after any such fee or charge becomes due and payable,
unless within that period a certificate signed by the First Selectman or
his or her designee describing the premises upon which the lien exists,
the reason on account of which it is claimed, and the amount claimed by
the town as a lien shall be filed in the town land records. Any such
lien shall cease to exist whenever a certificate discharging the same
signed by the First Selectman or his or her designee shall be filed in
the town land records. Such liens shall be discharged by the First
Selectman or his or her designee upon payment of such unpaid charges,
interest (as set forth in division (D) above), and a lien fee which
shall be an amount which is equal to the sum of a $5 administrative fee
and the amount charged by the Town Clerk for recording and releasing
such lien.

(Ord. passed 6-23-1979)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 13, page 213

§ 52.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 10.99.

   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of the restrictions
imposed by the Board of Selectmen in § 52.03 shall be fined not more
than $99. In the case of a continuing violation, each day’s continuance
thereof shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.

      (2)   If there has been a violation of any provision of the
restrictions imposed by the Board of Selectmen by the same person on
three separate occasions, the Superintendent of Utilities may, after
such notice and hearing as may be required by the State Department of
Public Utilities for termination of service to such person, enforce such
restrictions by reducing or discontinuing the supply of water to the
residence or business owned or occupied by such person.

(Ord. passed 11-8-1986; Ord. passed 6-18-2003)

CHAPTER 53: SEWERS

Section

General Provisions

   53.001   Definitions

   53.002   Establishment of charges

   53.003   Tampering with sewage works

   53.004   Right of entry for purposes of inspection, testing and the
like

   53.005   Appeals; review by Water and Sewer Commission

   53.006   Variances

Use of Public Sewers Required

   53.020   Disposition of objectionable items in unsanitary manner
prohibited

   53.021   Treatment required prior to discharge to natural outlet

   53.022   Connection to public sewer; private disposal systems

   53.023   New construction requiring sewer building construction
permit

Building Sewers and Connections

   53.035   Separate building sewer required; exceptions

   53.036   Use of old building sewers

   53.037   Size, slope, alignment and materials of building sewer
construction

   53.038   Laying of building sewer in relation to water line

   53.039   Laying of building sewer in relation to wells

   53.040   Elevation requirements for building sewer

   53.041   Excavations for building sewer installation

   53.042   Classes of permits; applications

   53.043   Permit required for connection

   53.044   Licensed plumber to perform work; exception

   53.045   Prohibited connections

   53.046   Inspection by Director

   53.047   Responsibility of owner for cost of installation or
connection

   53.048   Disused building sewer lines to be sealed

   53.049   Revocation of permit

Regulation of Discharges to Public Sewers

   53.060   Prohibited discharges

   53.061   Limitations on discharges of unusual strength of character;
criteria for consideration

   53.062   Alternative methods for handling restricted discharges

   53.063   Restricted discharges subject to review by Commission;
preliminary treatment

   53.064   Grease, oil and sand interceptors

   53.065   Maintenance of preliminary treatment and flow-equalizing
facilities

   53.066   Control manholes

   53.067   Authority of Commission to require certain information from
user

   53.068   Standard for measurement; tests and analyses

   53.069   Special agreements

   53.070   State requirements of public sewer connection

Sewer Extensions

   53.085   Compliance with state and town requirements; Commission
approval of plans required

   53.086   Construction of sewer extensions and building sewers by
town; assessment of costs

   53.087   Construction by property owner, builder or developer;
responsibility for costs; compliance with section

   53.088   To be designed by registered engineer

   53.089   Extensions to be tested prior to acceptance by Commission

Resolution Regarding Adoption of Sewer Use Charges;
Sewer Rates and Charges Generally

   53.100   Definitions

   53.101   Sewer Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund

   53.102   Rates and charges

   53.103   Billing and late charges

   53.104   Reporting requirements

   53.105   Review of charges by Commission

   53.106   Annual charges by Commission

   53.107   Methodology to be used in calculating user charge rates and
surcharges

Sewer Rates and Charges

   53.120   Sewer rates and charges

 

   53.999   Penalty

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of §§ 53.001 through 53.006, 53.020 through 53.023,
53.035 through 53.049, 53.060 through 53.070 and 53.085 through 53.089,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.

   ABBREVIATIONS.

 

ANSI

American National Standards Institute

ASTM

American Society for Testing and Materials

AWWA

American Water Works Association

CS

Commercial standard

ppm

parts per million

mg/l

milligrams per liter

Reference to standards of the above organization shall refer to the
latest edition of same.

 

   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known
as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.

   APPROVAL BY DIRECTOR OR COMMISSION. Will be in writing unless
otherwise stated in §§ 53.001 through 53.006, 53.020 through 53.023,
53.035 through 53.049, 53.060 through 53.070 and 53.085 through 53.089.

   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per
liter.

   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from the soil, waste and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to
the building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters)
outside the inner face of the building wall.

   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.

   COMMISSION. The Water and Sewer Commission of the Town of East Lyme,
Connecticut.

   DEP COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Environmental Protection for
the State of Connecticut.

   DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION. The State of Connecticut
Environmental Protection Agency; abbreviated DEP.

   DIRECTOR OF HEALTH. The Director duly appointed by the town, in
accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 19a-200 et seq. or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.

   DIRECTOR or SEWER DIRECTOR. The person appointed by the Commission as
an administrative officer who shall at all times be responsible to and
subject to the Commission and subject to removal for cause. The
Commission may also appoint a Deputy Director who in the Director’s
absence shall have the same powers and duties as the DIRECTOR.

   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale
of produce.

   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary wastewater.

   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of
surface or ground water.

   OWNER. Titleholder or titleholders of real property.

   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation or group or other entity.

   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.

   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in the public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.

   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.

   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries wastewater and to which storm,
surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.

   SEWAGE or WASTEWATER. A combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial
establishments, together with such ground, surface and storm waters as
may be present.

   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.

   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.

   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.

   SLUG. Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds
for any period or duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times
the average 24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.

   STORM DRAIN (SOMETIMES TERMED “STORM SEWER”). A sewer which carries
storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes wastewater and
industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.

   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which are
removable by laboratory filtering.

   TOWN. The word TOWN or any other word in common usage designating a
legally constituted unit of local government, shall mean the Town of
East Lyme Connecticut.

   TOWN MEETING. The town meeting of the Town of East Lyme, Connecticut.

   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devises and structures
used for treating wastewater.

   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.002 ESTABLISHMENT OF CHARGES.

   (A)   All sewer permit, inspection and connection charges, as well as
sewage disposal charges, shall be established by the Commission.

   (B)   The Chairperson of the Water and Sewer Commission is hereby
designated a collector of any and all charges lawfully established, now
or in the future, with respect to the rent, use of or connection to the
town system.

   (C)   Any charge not timely paid within 30 days of its due date,
shall be delinquent and subject to interest, penalties and liens
provided for in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-258, as amended.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.003 TAMPERING WITH SEWAGE WORKS.

   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenances or equipment which is a part of the sewerage works. Any
person violating this provision shall be subject to prosecution pursuant
to law.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see § 53.999

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.004 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSES OF INSPECTION, TESTING AND THE
LIKE.

   (A)   The Director, his or her Deputy and any other duly authorized
employee of the Water and Sewer Commission, hereinafter severally or
collectively referred to as Director as used in §§ 53.001 through
53.006, 53.020 through 53.023, 53.035 through 53.049, 53.060 through
53.070 and 53.085 through 53.089, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
in accordance with the provisions of §§ 53.001 through 53.006, 53.020
through 53.023, 53.035 through 53.049, 53.060 through 53.070 and 53.085
through 53.089. The Director shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on
the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.

   (B)   The Director, his or her Deputy and other duly authorized
employees of the Commission, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties
through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for the purpose
of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewerage works lying within
said easement. All entries and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.

   (C)   While performing the necessary work in private properties
above, the Director or duly authorized employees of the municipality
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the user. The user shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
municipal employees and the municipality shall indemnify the user
against loss or damage to its property by municipal employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property
damage asserted against the user and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the user to maintain safe conditions as required in this
section.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.005 APPEALS; REVIEW BY WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION.

   (A)   The Commission shall hear and determine appeals from any person
presented with a notice of violation in accordance with the provisions
of §§ 53.001 through 53.006, 53.020 through 53.023, 53.035 through
53.049, 53.060 through 53.070 and 53.085 through 53.089.

   (B)   Any person requesting an appeal must notify the Commission in
writing of his or her desire to appeal prior to the expiration of the
time limit for compliance stated in the notice of violation.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.006 VARIANCES.

   It shall be the function of the Commission in its sound discretion to
vary or modify the application of any of the provisions of §§ 53.001
through 53.006, 53.020 through 53.023, 53.035 through 53.049, 53.060
through 53.070 and 53.085 through 53.089 when strict enforcement would
result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship, and when such
situations are not caused by or contributed to by such applicant.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED

§ 53.020 DISPOSITION OF OBJECTIONABLE ITEMS IN UNSANITARY MANNER
PROHIBITED.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or
animal excrement or other objectionable waste in an unsanitary manner as
indicated in the Public Health Code of the state.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see § 53.999

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.021 TREATMENT REQUIRED PRIOR TO DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLET.

   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided
in accordance with subsequent provisions of §§ 53.001 through 53.006,
53.020 through 53.023, 53.035 through 53.049, 53.060 through 53.070 and
53.085 through 53.089 or with the provisions of the Public Health Code
of the state.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see § 53.999

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.022 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER; PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.

   (A)   Responsibility of owner to provide sanitary facilities and
connect upon availability of public sewer. The owners of all houses,
buildings or other structures used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the town and abutting on
any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or where
construction has been funded for public sewers in the town, are hereby
required at their expense to install suitable sanitary facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer in accordance with the provisions of §§ 53.001 through 53.006,
53.020 through 53.023, 53.035 through 53.049, 53.060 through 53.070 and
53.085 through 53.089, within 120 days after being ordered to do so by
the Commission. This section is subject to the public hearing and appeal
rights provided for in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-257 et seq.

   (B)   Utilization of existing disposal system. An existing subsurface
disposal system may only be utilized in lieu of the public sanitary
sewer when, in the sole discretion of the Commission, unique
circumstances exist to justify such utilization, provided that the
existing system has been approved in writing by both the Commission and
the Director of Health, which approval shall be given only after said
Director’s inspection of the subject system, and a finding is made that
the same satisfies prevailing public health, sanitation and safety
standards. Unique circumstances to allow utilization of an existing
system shall be excessive distance from property line to structure,
extensive presence of ledge, or other geographical or topographical
conditions such as wetlands or grade changes which make sewer connection
extremely impractical. Should the system fail at any time after said
approval, a connection to the sewer system must be made within 120 days
after being ordered to do so by the Commission, subject to the public
hearing and appeal rights provided for in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-257 et
seq.

   (C)   Connection to sewers installed wholly or partly at the expense
of a party other than the town. When a public sanitary sewer has been
constructed and installed wholly or partly at the expense of a party
other than the town, the owner of houses, buildings or other structures
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes
situated within the town and abutting on any street, alley or
right-of-way in which said public sanitary sewer is located may connect
said houses, building or structures to the sewer upon his or her request
and at his or her expense. Before the public sanitary sewer is
installed, the owners of such houses, buildings or structures shall be
notified of their opportunity to connect to the sewer and that their
existing subsurface disposal systems will be inspected by the Director
of Health. An existing subsurface disposal system may be utilized for
such houses, buildings, structures, provided that the existing system
has been approved in writing by the Director of Health, which approval
shall be given only after inspection of the system and a finding that it
satisfies prevailing public health, sanitation and safety standards.
Should such existing system not be approved by the Director of Health,
or should the system fail at any time after said approval, or should a
change in use of the premises require an expansion or improvement of an
existing subsurface disposal system, a connection to the sewer system
must be made within 120 days after being ordered to do so by the
Commission, subject to the public hearing and appeal rights provided for
in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-257 et seq. Any houses, buildings or structures
constructed during or after the installation of any such public sanitary
sewer system shall be connected directly with the sewer in accordance
with the provisions of §§ 53.001 through 53.006, 53.020 through 53.023,
53.035 through 53.049, 53.060 through 53.070 and 53.085 through 53.089,
within 120 days after being ordered to do so by the Commission.

   (D)   Abandonment of private disposal system. At such time as a
public sewer becomes available to the property served by a private
sewage disposal system, and when a direct connection is made to the
public sewer in compliance with this section within the specified
period, any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned, cleaned of sludge and filled with clean
bank-run gravel or dirt.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.023 NEW CONSTRUCTION REQUIRING SEWER BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.

   No person shall be allowed to construct any building which is
accessible under § 53.022 unless he or she first obtains a written sewer
building construction permit from the Commission for direct connection
to a public sewer.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see § 53.999

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS

§ 53.035 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.

   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to
the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway. In
this case the building sewer from the front building may be extended to
the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer. Where
there exists a group of buildings belonging to one commercial,
multi-family complex, industrial or municipal complex, separate
individual buildings sewers may be connected to a single sewer line
designed in accordance with § 53.037 and a single connection made to the
public sewer system, provided that it is approved by the Water and Sewer
Commission.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.036 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.

   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, upon examination and test by the Director, to meet
all requirements of §§ 53.001 through 53.006, 53.020 through 53.023,
53.035 through 53.049, 53.060 through 53.070 and 53.085 through 53.089.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.037 SIZE, SLOPE, ALIGNMENT AND MATERIALS OF BUILDING SEWER
CONSTRUCTION.

   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
latest requirements of the Connecticut State Building Code, the Public
Health Code of the state or the applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in the appropriate specifications of
the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Commission before installation.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.038 LAYING OF BUILDING SEWER IN RELATION TO WATER LINE.

   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of
any bearing wall. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection
from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in
straight alignments insofar as possible. The changes in direction shall
be made only with curved pipe and fittings which have been approved by
the Commission. Whenever sewer lines, the building drain or building
sewer must cross water mains or private water lines, the sewer shall be
laid at such an elevation that the top of the sewer is at least 18
inches below the bottom of the water line.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.039 LAYING OF BUILDING SEWER IN RELATION TO WELLS.

   No building sewer shall be constructed within 25 feet of a water
supply well. If a building sewer is constructed between 25 and 75 feet
of a water well supply, it shall be constructed in accordance with all
applicable guidelines promulgated by the DEP Commissioner.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.040 ELEVATION REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING SEWER.

   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor to permit gravity flow
to the public sewer. In all buildings in which any building drain is too
low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried
by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged through a pressurized pipe to the building sewer, and
suitable check and backwater valves shall be installed. Such means of
lifting the sewage shall be provided and maintained by the town and be
installed and operated at the owner’s expense.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.041 EXCAVATIONS FOR BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION.

   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. All excavations located on public property shall receive prior
approval by the Planning and Zoning Commissions in accordance with their
regulations. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property
shall be restored equal to or better than its original condition prior
to construction. All excavations for the installation of a building
sewer shall be open trenchwork unless otherwise approved by the
Commission. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance
with ASTM Specification (C12). The contractor shall obtain a permit
pursuant to § 53.043 and shall give notice of the date of commencement
of work more than 24 hours before work begins.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.042 CLASSES OF PERMITS; APPLICATIONS.

   There shall be three classes of sewage connection permits; Class A
for the installation of private sewer disposal facilities; Class B for
multi-family residential and commercial building sewers; and Class C for
service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In all cases, the
owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the Commission. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Commission.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.043 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION.

   No person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sanitary sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Commission unless he
or she represents the Commission in performing maintenance, repair or
extension of the system. The fee for said permit shall be set pursuant
to § 53.002.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see § 53.999

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.044 LICENSED PLUMBER TO PERFORM WORK; EXCEPTION.

   (A)   All work shall be performed by a licensed plumber (P-1, P-3)
licensed under Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 20-330 et seq. or as indicated in
division (B) below. The system shall be subject to inspection and
approval by the Director when the laying of a building sewer is
completed and before filling of the trench.

   (B)   Should an owner of a single-family residence have a Class A
installation performed by a subsurface sewage disposal system installer
licensed under Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 20-341a et seq., the system shall be
further subject to inspection and approval by the Town Building
Inspector when laying of a building sewer is completed and before
filling of the trench.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see § 53.999

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.045 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.

   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer or combined
sanitary and storm sewer.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see § 53.999

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.046 INSPECTION BY DIRECTOR.

   The applicant for the sewer connection permit shall notify the
Director when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. All connections to public sewers will be inspected
by the Director or his or her Deputy.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.047 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER FOR COST OF INSTALLATION OR CONNECTION.

   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the town for any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.048 DISUSED BUILDING SEWER LINES TO BE SEALED.

   When a building is taken down and there is no other building using
the sewer line, it shall be sealed at the old wall with concrete so that
no dirt from the cellar fill will wash into the sewer.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.049 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.

   Permits to connect to the public sewer may be revoked or annulled by
the Commission for such cause and at such times as the Commission may
deem sufficient and the town is hereby held harmless as a consequence of
said revocation or the cause thereof. All other parties in interest
shall be held to have waived the right to claim damages from the town or
its agents on account of said revocation.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

REGULATION OF DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SEWERS

§ 53.060 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.

   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, sub-surface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process water to
any sanitary sewer. The steam cleaning of automotive or other mechanical
equipment over manhole covers is prohibited as well as the depositing of
wastes from such operation into the sewer system.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see § 53.999

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.061 LIMITATIONS ON DISCHARGES OF UNUSUAL STRENGTH OF CHARACTER;
CRITERIA FOR CONSIDERATION.

   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters or other wastes which
can harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or equipment,
have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise
endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
acceptability of these wastes will be based on consideration to such
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the wastewater treatment process, capacity of the wastewater
treatment plan, degree of treatability of wastes in the wastewater
treatment plant and other pertinent factors.

   (B)   The substances prohibited are:

      (1)   Any petroleum distillates or other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;

      (2)   Any water or wastes containing toxic pollutants, malodorous
or poisonous solids, liquids or gases, in sufficient quantity, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the wastewater treatment plant, or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair. A toxic pollutant shall include
but not be limited to any pollutant identified pursuant to § 307(a) of
the Act;

      (3)   Any water or waste, acid and alkaline in reaction, having a
pH lower than five and five-tenths or having any other corrosive
property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewerage works. The upper limit of pH for any
industrial wastewater discharge shall be established under the
dischargers’ state discharge permit. Free acids and alkalies must be
neutralized, at all times, within the above pH range;

      (4)   Solid or viscous substance in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction of the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewerage works, such as,
but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal,
glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, chemical residues, cannery
waste, bulk solid, cardboard, styrofoam, beer or distillery slops, lime
residues, lime slurry, paint residues, unground garbage, whole blood,
paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk
containers, whey and the like, either whole or ground by garbage
grinders. In no case shall a substance discharged cause the facilities
to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines
or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act, or under the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act or State criteria applicable to the sludge management method
being used;

      (5)   Any water or waste containing suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle such materials at the wastewater treatment plant;

      (6)   Any storm water, roof drains, spring water, cistern or tank
overflow, footing drain, discharge from any vehicle wash rack or water
motor, or the contents of any privy vault, septic tank or cesspool, or
the discharge of effluent from any air conditioning machine or
refrigeration unit;

      (7)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C);

      (8)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of 50 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and
150°F (0 and 65°C);

      (9)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor
of three-fourths horsepower (0.75 horsepower metric) or greater shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Director;

      (10)   Any water or waste containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;

      (11)   Any water or waste containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc
and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or waste exerting an
excessive chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material
received in the composite sewage at the wastewater treatment works
exceeds the limits established by the Commission and by the state
regulatory agencies for such materials;

      (12)   Any water or waste containing phenols or other taste or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations, exceeding limits
which may be established by the Commission as necessary, after treatment
of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal
or other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the
receiving waters;

      (13)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the applicable state
or federal regulations;

      (14)   Materials which exert or cause:

         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such
as, but not limited to, Fuller’s earth and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and
sodium sulfate);

         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);

         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine
requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on
the wastewater treatment works; and

         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes
constituting “slugs” as defined herein.

      (15)   Unusual quantities of wastes or substances which the
treatment plant cannot treat to the minimal level recommended by the
state or federal regulatory agencies;

      (16)    All discharge of wastewater shall also conform with the
agreements established between the City of New London, the Town of
Waterford and the Town of East Lyme; and

      (17)   Sewage with a concentration of pollutants in excess of the
following limits:

  ----------- -----------------------------------
  Pollutant   Concentration Parts/million(mg/l)
  ----------- -----------------------------------

  ---------------------------- -----------------------------------
  Pollutant                    Concentration Parts/million(mg/l)
  Arsenic as As                0.05
  Barium as Ba                 5.0
  Boron as Bo                  5.0
  Cadmium                      0.1
  Chromium (Cr + 6)            0.05
  Chromium (total)             1.0
  Copper as Cu                 1.0
  Cyanides as Cn (amendable)   0.1
  Fluoride as F                20
  Lead                         0.1
  Magnesium as Mg              100
  Manganese as Mn              5.0
  Mercury                      0.01
  Nickel                       1.0
  Silver                       0.1
  Tin                          2.0
  Zinc as Zn                   1.0
                               
  ---------------------------- -----------------------------------

 

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see § 53.999

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.062 ALTERNATIVE METHODS FOR HANDLING RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.

   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in § 53.061 and which may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, process equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the Commission may:

   (A)   Reject the waste;

   (B)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge
to the public sewers;

   (C)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
and/or

   (D)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treating the waste not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.063 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES SUBJECT TO REVIEW BY COMMISSION;
PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.

   (A)   The admission into public sewers of any water or waste having
or containing the following shall be subject to the review and approval
of the Commission:

      (1)   Having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 240
parts per million by weight;

      (2)   Containing more than 240 parts per million;

      (3)   Containing more than 15 parts per million of chlorine
demand;

      (4)   Containing any quantity of substances having the
characteristics above the previously described limits; or

      (5)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
daily sewage flow of the town.

   (B)   Where necessary, the owner shall provide at his or her own
expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:

      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 240 parts per
million and the suspended solids to 240 parts per million by weight;

      (2)   Reduce the chlorine demand to 15 parts per million;

      (3)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to
within the maximum limits provided for in § 53.061; or

      (4)   Control the quantities and rate of discharge of such water
or waste.

   (C)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted to the
Commission for approval and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.064 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.

   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Commission and shall be located so as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and
oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily removable
covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
Proper operation must be assured by proper maintenance.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see § 53.999

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.065 MAINTENANCE OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT AND FLOW-EQUALIZING
FACILITIES.

   Where preliminary treatment of flow-equalizing facilities (including,
but not limited to, grease, oil and sand interceptors) are provided for
any water or waste, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
These facilities shall be readily accessible and open to inspection by
the Director at any time.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see § 53.999

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.066 CONTROL MANHOLES.

   (A)   When required by the Commission, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole, together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling
and measurement of the wastes.

   (B)   Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Commission.

   (C)   The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998) Penalty, see § 53.999

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.067 AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION TO REQUIRE CERTAIN INFORMATION FROM
USER.

   (A)   The Commission may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with §§ 53.001 through
53.006, 53.020 through 53.023, 53.035 through 53.049, 53.060 through
53.070 and 53.085 through 53.089.

   (B)   These requirements may include:

      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specific
time period;

      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewater;

      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products
affecting wastewater volume and quality;

      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil,
solvent or other materials important to sewer use control;

      (5)   A plot plan of sewers on the user’s property showing sewer
and pretreatment facility location;

      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and

      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of
materials through spills to the municipal sewer.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.068 STANDARD FOR MEASUREMENT; TESTS AND ANALYSES.

   All measurement, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in §§ 53.001 through 53.006,
53.020 through 53.023, 53.035 through 53.049, 53.060 through 53.070 and
53.085 through 53.089 shall be determined in accordance with the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published by the American Public Health Association, and shall be
determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has
been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Samplings shall be carried out by
customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon
the sewerage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life,
limb and property. The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate
or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not
always, BOD and suspended solid analyses are obtained from a 24-hour
composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
samples. Samples will be made by the Commission or its authorized
representative and any fee for such services is the sole responsibility
of the owner.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.069 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.

   No statement contained in §§ 53.001 through 53.006, 53.020 through
53.023, 53.035 through 53.049, 53.060 through 53.070 and 53.085 through
53.089 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or
arrangement between the Commission and any industrial concern whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the
Commission for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial
concern.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.070 STATE REQUIREMENTS OF PUBLIC SEWER CONNECTION.

   (A)   State permits required. 

      (1)   In accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 25-54i, as amended, a
permit from the Commissioner of Environmental Protection is required
prior to the initiation of a discharge of any of the following
wastewaters to a public sewer:

         (a)   Industrial wastewater of any quantity; and

         (b)   Domestic sewage in excess of 5,000 gallons per day
through any individual building sewer to a public sewer.

      (2)   A potential discharger must submit a permit application to
the Department of Environmental Protection not later than ninety (90)
days prior to the anticipated date of initiation of the proposed
discharge.

   (B)   Protection from accidental discharges.

      (1)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge
of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by §§ 53.001
through 53.006, 53.020 through 53.023, 53.035 through 53.049, 53.060
through 53.070 and 53.085 through 53.089.

      (2)   Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited
materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user’s cost
and expense as required by the Commission. The Commission may require
that plans showing facilities and operating procedures be submitted for
review and approval prior to construction of the facilities.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

SEWER EXTENSIONS

§ 53.085 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND TOWN REQUIREMENTS; COMMISSION
APPROVAL OF PLANS REQUIRED.

   All extensions to the sanitary sewer system owned or to be owned and
maintained by the town shall be properly designed in accordance with the
Recommended Standards for Sewage Works, as adopted by the Great
Lakes-Upper Mississippi River Board of State Sanitary Engineers (Ten
State Standards) and in strict conformance with all requirements of the
state and the town and other appropriate town agencies. Plans and
specifications for sewer extensions shall be submitted to and approval
obtained from, the Commission before construction may proceed. The
design of sewers must anticipate and allow for flows from all possible
future extensions or developments within the immediate drainage area;
the drainage area being that area which can be easily sewered by
gravity.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.086 CONSTRUCTION OF SEWER EXTENSIONS AND BUILDING SEWERS BY TOWN;
ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.

   Sewer extensions, including individual building sewers from the
public sewer to the property line, may be constructed by the town under
public contract if, in the opinion of the Commission, the number of
properties to be serviced by such extension warrants its costs. Under
this arrangement the property owner shall pay for and install the
building sewer from the property line to his or her residence or place
of business in accordance with the requirements of §§ 53.035 through
53.049. Property owners may propose sewer extensions to the town by
drafting a written petition, signed by a majority of the benefitting
property owners, and filing it with the Commission. The cost of such
extensions may be assessed to the benefitted property owners.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.087 CONSTRUCTION BY PROPERTY OWNER, BUILDER OR DEVELOPER;
RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS; COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION.

   If the Commission does not elect to construct a sewer extension under
public contract, the property owner, builder or developer must construct
the necessary sewer extension, including lateral connections from the
sewer main to the property line of each property served by any such
extension and lateral connections to the street line of any public
street or way intersecting with the street or way in which any such
extension is constructed or installed, if such extensions are approved
by the Commission, in accordance with the requirements of § 53.085. He,
she or they must pay for the entire installation, including all expenses
incidental thereto. Each building sewer installed must be installed and
inspected as required by §§ 53.001 through 53.006, 53.020 through
53.023, 53.035 through 53.049, 53.060 through 53.070 and 53.085 through
53.089 and the inspection fees as required by the Commission shall be
paid. Design of sewers shall be as specified in § 53.088. The
installation of the sewer extension must be subject to inspection by the
Director and the expenses for these inspections shall be paid for by the
owner, builder or developer. The Director’s decision shall be final in
matters of quality and methods of construction. The sewer as constructed
must pass the exfiltration and infiltration test required in § 53.089
before it is to be used. The cost of sewer extensions thus made shall be
absorbed by the developers or the property owners, including all
building sewers.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.088 TO BE DESIGNED BY REGISTERED ENGINEER.

   All designs for sewer extensions shall be accomplished by an engineer
who is registered and authorized to practice in the field of sanitary
engineering in the state. The designs and plans prepared by such
engineer shall be reviewed by the Commission. No construction shall be
undertaken until approval of the plan is obtained from the Commission
and other agencies as required by the town and the proper permits are
issued.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

§ 53.089 EXTENSIONS TO BE TESTED PRIOR TO ACCEPTANCE BY COMMISSION.

   Upon completion of construction of any sewer extension, but before
final acceptance by the Commission, the sewer system shall be tested for
infiltration and exfiltration of both sewer lines and the manholes by
approved means and under the direction and inspection of an engineer
registered and authorized to practice in the field of sanitary
engineering in the state with the presence of the Director. When the
sewers have passed tests to demonstrate that they meet the best
standards of American workmanship, then the engineer shall certify in
writing to the Commission as to the nature of the tests and results
thereof, and the fact that the tests meet acceptable standards.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

RESOLUTION REGARDING ADOPTION OF SEWER USE CHARGES;
SEWER RATES AND CHARGES GENERALLY

§ 53.100 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation or organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure at five days at 20°C express in milligrams per
liter (mg/l).

   COMMERCIAL USER. All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings,
laundries and other private businesses and service establishments.

   COMMISSION. The Water and Sewer Commission of the Town of East Lyme,
Connecticut.

   GOVERNMENTAL USERS. Includes legislative, judicial, administrative
and regulatory activities of the federal, state and local governments.

   INDUSTRIAL USER. Includes any non-governmental, nonresidential user
of publicly owned treatment works as defined in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended
and supplemented, under the following divisions:

      (1)   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;

      (2)   Division B - Mining;

      (3)   Division D - Manufacturing;

      (4)   Division E - Transportation, Communication, Electric, Gas
and Sanitary; and

      (5)   Division I - Services.

   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Includes social, charitable, religious and
educational activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing
homes, penal institutions and similar institutional users.

   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration
of not more than 240 parts per million by weight; and suspended solids
concentration of not more than 240 parts per million; or containing more
than 15 parts per million of chlorine demand; or containing any quantity
of substances having the characteristics above the previously described
limits; or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
daily sewage flow of the town.

   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Those functions that result in
expenditures during the useful life of the treatment works for
materials, labor, utilities and other items which are necessary for
managing and for which such works were designed and constructed. The
term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes replacement.

   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life
of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance of such
works for which such works were designed and constructed.

   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the town’s treatment works whose
lot, parcel or real estate or building is used for domestic dwelling
purposes only.

   SEWER DIRECTOR. The person appointed by the Commission as an
administrative officer who shall at all times be responsible to and
subject to the Commission and subject to removal for cause. The
Commission may also appoint a Deputy Director who in the Director’s
absence shall have the same powers and duties as the Director.

   SHALL. Is mandatory, MAY is permissible.

   SS (DENOTING SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the
surface of or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids in
which are removable by laboratory filtering.

   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage and
liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall
sewers, sewer collection systems, pumping, power and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled
supply of such standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and
any works, including side acquisition of the land that will be an
integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal
of residues resulting from such treatment (including land for
composting, sludge, temporary storage of such compost and land used for
the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment systems before land
application); or any other method or system for preventing, abating,
reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal waste
or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and
sanitary sewer systems.)

   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the treatment works
shall be operated.

   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which
is levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment
works.

   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished
and/or installed by a user and approved by the Town Sewer Director or
other duly authorized employee of the Town Water and Sewer Commission.

(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)

§ 53.101 SEWER OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT FUND.

   (A)   The revenues collected, as a result of the user charges levy,
shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the Sewer
Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund.

   (B)   (1)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation, Maintenance
and Replacement Fund shall be used for no other purpose than those
designated. Monies which have been transferred from other sources to
meet temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance and Replacement
Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts appropriate
adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance and
replacement.

      (2)   The user charge rates shall be adjusted such that the
transferred monies will be returned to their respective accounts within
six months of the fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.

(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)

§ 53.102 RATES AND CHARGES.

   (A)   Each user shall pay for the services provided by the Commission
based upon use of the treatment works as determined by water meter
readings (or other appropriate methods) acceptable to the Commission.

   (B)   For residential, industrial and commercial users, semi-annual
user charges will be based on actual water usage. If an industrial,
institutional or commercial customer uses water which is not discharged
into the wastewater collection system, and desires not to be billed for
use of such water, upon application to the Commission and approval of
such application flows not discharged to the municipal sewerage system
will be metered separately. A second meter to measure flow to be
deducted from the total metered water consumption at the site. The cost
of providing and plumbing the second meter shall be the sole
responsibility of the customer. Properties for which an exception is
granted will be charged a flat fee, to be applied to each semi-annual
usage bill, to offset the Commission’s burden of additional meter
readings and administration expenses associated with “exception”
accounts. This fee will be in an amount equal to the sewer usage then in
effect for 25,000 gallons of sewer usage.

   (C)   (1)   All users of the Commission’s facilities shall pay a user
fee based in terms of dollars per 1,000 gallons of water used. The user
fee is calculated as follows:

Rate per 1000 gallons = (Total annual O, M & R Costs Less Permit Fees)
(Estimated Annual Water Consumption/1,000)

      (2)   Each user shall pay a user charge rate for operation and
maintenance including replacement of capital equipment as set forth in §
53.107. The user fee shall be determined per § 53.107 on an annual basis
by the Commission and subject to the statutory limitations contained in
Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 103, § 7-255. The initial user charge rate
shall hereafter be $4 per 1,000 gallons of water usage. This fee is
subject to change by vote of the Commission pursuant to § 53.106 of
these regulations.

   (D)   Each user shall pay upon connecting into the wastewater
collection system a permit and inspection fee of $50. This fee is
subject to change by vote of the Commission pursuant to § 53.106 of
these regulations.

   (E)   Those residential users that derive potable water from on site
wells without metered water service shall install a water meter for
measuring volume or, as approved by the Commission, have their bills
computed based on water use associated with similar residential users
within the system.

   (F)   Any user that discharges any toxic pollutants (as defined in §§
53.001 through 53.006, 53.020 through 53.023, 53.035 through 53.049,
53.060 through 53.070 and 53.085 through 53.089) which causes an
increase in the cost of managing the effluent of the sludge from the
town’s treatment works, or any user which discharges any substance which
singly or by interaction with other substances causes identifiable
increases in the cost of operation, maintenance or replacement of the
treatment works, shall pay for such increased cost. The charge to each
such user shall be determined by the Sewer Director and approved by the
Commission.

(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)

§ 53.103 BILLING AND LATE CHARGES.

   (A)   All users shall be billed semi-annually. Semi-annual bills
shall be due and payable to the Commission on November 1 and May 1 of
each year. Any payment not received within 30 days after the due date
shall be delinquent and subject to interest and penalties pursuant to
law.

   (B)   A late payment penalty of 1% of the user charge bill will be
added to each delinquent bill for each 30 days or a portion thereof of
delinquency. When any bill is more than 90 days in default, water and/or
sewer service to such premises may be discontinued until such bill is
paid.

   (C)   When any bill (including interest and penalty) remains unpaid
for one year after the date due, such bill shall be recorded in the land
records of the town by the Chairperson of the Commission and shall
constitute a lien on the property. If such lien (including interest and
penalty) remains unpaid for a period of one year after the date of
recordation, such property shall be subject to public sale pursuant to
law.

(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)

§ 53.104 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

   All users contributing more than 200,000 gallons per month and whose
waste strength is greater than 240 mg/l BOD/l or 240 mg/l SS/l shall
prepare and file with the Commission a report that shall include
pertinent data relating to the wastewater characteristics, including the
methods of sampling and measurement to obtain these data, and these data
shall be used to calculate the user charges for that user. The
Commission shall have the right to gain access to the waste stream and
make its own samples. Should the Commission do so and should the results
be substantially different as determined by the Commission from the data
submitted by the user, the user charge for that user shall be revised
for the next billing cycle/period.

(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)

§ 53.105 REVIEW OF CHARGES BY COMMISSION.

   (A)   Any user(s) who feels their user charge is unjust or
inequitable may make written application to the Commission requesting a
review of their user charge. Said written request shall, where
necessary, show the actual or estimated flow and/or strength of his or
her wastewater in comparison with the values upon which the charge is
based, including how the measurements or estimates were made.

   (B)   Review of the request shall be made by the Water and Sewer
Commission and, if substantiated, the user charges for that user shall
be recomputed on the basis of the revised flow and/or strength data and
the new charges shall be applicable to the next billing cycle/period.

(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)

§ 53.106 ANNUAL CHARGES BY COMMISSION.

   (A)   The Commission will review the user charges when it deems
appropriate and may revise its rates and fees as are necessary to ensure
that adequate revenues are generated to pay the cost of operation and
maintenance including replacement and that the system continues to
provide for the proportional distribution of operation and maintenance
including replacement cost among users and user classes.

   (B)   The Commission will notify each user of any rate change(s) by
publication of said rate change in The Day newspaper on at least two
occasions more than 30 days before said rate change becomes effective.

(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)

§ 53.107 METHODOLOGY TO BE USED IN CALCULATING USER CHARGE RATES AND
SURCHARGES.

   This section presents the methodology to be used in calculating user
charge rates and surcharges and illustrates the calculations followed in
arriving at the first year’s user charges and surcharges.

   (A)   Expenses: total annual expenses by unit process are:

 

Unit Process

Total Annual Amount

Volume Amount

Permit Fund

Gen

Costs

Pump stations, collection and conveyance system

$269,200

85%

4.5%

10.5%

Administrative and general

$20,800

85%

4.5%

10.5%

Operative reserve

0

Reserve capital replacement

0

TOTAL O, M & R Costs = $290,000

 

   (B)   Loadings: the total water consumption is estimated to be
61,750,000 gal/year.

   (C)   Unit costs.

 

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total annual O, M & R costs in
  $/1,000 gallons = Total annual O, M & F $ Estimated annual water consumption/ 1,000 gallons
  $/1,000 gallons = $247,000 = 4.00/1,000 gal.
        61,750

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

(Res. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 8-25-1992; Ord. passed 11-27-2001)

SEWER RATES AND CHARGES

§ 53.120 SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.

   (A)   On October 25, 2016, the Town Water and Sewer Commission
approved the following revised schedule of rates and charges for
connection to and use of the town sewerage system.

Schedule I - Rates for Usage Based on Meter Readings at 6-Month
Intervals

 

Rate

Up to 2,500,000 gallons per 6-month period

$7.90/1,000 gallons

2,500,000 gallons and over per 6-month period

$8.59/1,000 gallons

Unmetered, per six 6-month period

$208

Schedule II - Miscellaneous Sewer Charges

Application for connection permit

   Class A - Residential

$105

   Class B - Multi-family and commercial

$210

   Class C - Industrial

$525

   Demolition/disconnect - any class

$55

Inspection services

   After normal working hours

$110/hour

   During normal working hours

$73.50/hour

Sale of stocked material

Cost, incl. shipping, plus 12% admin fee

 

   (B)   These revised rates and charges would be effective on November
1, 2017. Rates for usage shall be payable at six-month intervals. All
other rates shall be payable at the time services are rendered.

   (C)   The owners of properties against which the revised rates and
charges are to be levied are hereby notified that any appeals from the
revised rates and charges must be taken within 21 days after the date
this notice was filed with the Town Clerk on November 3, 2017.

(Ord. passed 11-1-2006; Ord. passed - -2009; Ord. passed 10-24-2012;
Ord. passed 10-29-2014; Ord. passed 10-25-2016; Ord. passed 11-2-2017)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 49

   AMENDED BELOW

      TM Volume 15, page 229; TM Volume 16, page 19; TM Volume 16, page
126; TM Volume 20, page 5; TM Volume 22, page 150; TM Volume 22, page
624

§ 53.999 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 10.99.

   (B)   The filling of a trench before inspection is complete shall
subject the owner to whom a permit is issued to a penalty of $100 for
each offense and the owner may be required to reopen the trench for
inspection.

(Ord. passed 3-17-1991; Ord. passed 9-12-1998)

Editor’s note:

TM Volume 18, page 63; TM Volume 21, page 584

TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE

   Chapter

      70.   OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES

      71.   ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND UNREGISTERED MOTOR VEHICLES

      72.   PARKING

      73.   SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES

CHAPTER 70: OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES

Section

   70.01   Operation of motor vehicles on town-owned property

 

   70.99   Penalty

§ 70.01 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON TOWN-OWNED PROPERTY.

   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, no person shall
operate on any town-owned property, any motor vehicle, as defined in
division (C) below, which is not registered for highway operation by the
individual, commission, department or agency of any state having
authority for the registration of motor vehicles.

   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) below, no person shall
operate on any town-owned property any motor vehicle, as defined in
division (C) below, unless such person is licensed by the individual,
commission, department or agency of any state having authority for
licensing operators of motor vehicles on highways or unless such person
is participating in a course of study of motor vehicles operation given
under the authority of the Town Board of Education.

      (2)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, as defined in
division (C) below, on any town-owned property, except on paved roads,
driveways and parking lots unless such person is a town, state or
federal official engaged in government business or a person authorized
to do so by the town board having responsibility for the care and
maintenance of such property.

   (C)   For purposes of this section, MOTOR VEHICLE means any vehicle
propelled or drawn by any power other than muscular, but does not
include construction equipment being operated on any project of the
town, electric battery-operated wheel chairs when operated by physically
handicapped persons and self-propelled snow plows, snow blowers and lawn
mowers.

   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the operation of any
motor vehicle, as defined in division (C) above, on any town-owned
property during participation in any program on any such property
authorized by the town board having responsibility for the care and
maintenance of such property and supervised by any town board.

(Ord. passed 2-5-1971; Ord. passed 1-3-1977) Penalty, see § 70.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 10, page 348; TM Volume 12, page 292, Amended

§ 70.99 PENALTY.

   Any person violating any provision of § 70.01 shall be fined not more
than $100.

(Ord. passed 2-5-1971; Ord. passed 1-3-1977)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 10, page 348; TM Volume 12, page 292, Amended

CHAPTER 71: ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND UNREGISTERED MOTOR VEHICLES

Section

   71.01   Zoning Enforcement Officer’s duties

   71.02   Vehicle not removed

   71.03   Notice

§ 71.01 ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER’S DUTIES.

   Upon receipt of notice that there is an abandoned, inoperable or
unregistered motor vehicle within the limits of any highway, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall:

   (A)   Give written notice by U.S. mail, postage prepaid, to the last
owner of record of such vehicle, if such owner can be determined; and

   (B)   Publish notice once in a newspaper having a substantial
circulation in the town.

(Ord. passed - -)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 11, page 138

§ 71.02 VEHICLE NOT REMOVED.

   If such vehicle is not removed within 30 days after the notice
provided for in § 71.01, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall:

   (A)   If the current market value of such vehicle is not more than
the expenses of Zoning Enforcement Officer and the cost of removing such
vehicle to the nearest motor vehicle junk yard, provide for the removal
there of such vehicle; and

   (B)   If the current market value of such vehicle is more than the
expenses of the Zoning Enforcement Officer and the cost of removing such
vehicle to the nearest motor vehicle junk yard, proceed in accordance
with the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-150(b) and (c), as the same
may be amended from time to time.

(Ord. passed - -)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 11, page 138

§ 71.03 NOTICE.

   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall give written notice by U.S.
mail, postage prepaid, of the disposition of such vehicle to the
Commissioner of Motor Vehicles and the owner of such vehicle, if such
owner can be determined.

(Ord. passed - -)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 11, page 138

CHAPTER 72: PARKING

Section

   72.01   Restricting parking of commercial vehicles in residential
zones

   72.02   General parking restrictions

 

   72.99   Penalty

§ 72.01 RESTRICTING PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.

   No commercially operated or licensed vehicle having a gross weight of
10,000 pounds or more, shall be parked or stored on any public street in
a residential zoned area except as follows:

   (A)   When actively engaged in the conduct of business, i.e.,
loading, unloading, installation or repair, and directly related to
property located in a residential zone;

   (B)   In connection with any legally existing, nonconforming,
nonresidential use located in a residential zone. Any on-street parking
of such vehicles shall be restricted to the abutting street frontage
related to the nonresidential use; and

   (C)   On an occasional basis, not exceeding an average of once a
month, when such use is in conjunction with the need for emergency
repair response such as by a utility serviceman or mechanical systems
repairman, or other incidental use approved in writing by the First
Selectman.

(Ord. passed 9-24-1986) Penalty, see § 72.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 16, page 15

§ 72.02 GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.

   (A)   No vehicle shall be parking in the following manner on a
highway or a municipal parking lot in the town.

      (1)   Upon a highway:

         a.    Within ten feet of any fire hydrant;

         b.   Parallel and adjacent to a vehicle already parked in a
particular area;

         c.   Upon any public sidewalk except when in the process of
crossing said sidewalk or when necessary to perform sidewalk
construction, maintenance or snow removal or when other emergency
circumstances require;

         d.   In such manner as to obstruct or interfere with the
ingress or egress from a private driveway or alleyway, except with the
permission of the owner of such private driveway or alleyway;

         e.   Upon the traveled portion of any highway except upon the
right-hand side of such highway in the direction in which such vehicle
is headed;

         f.   With the right-hand wheels further than 12 inches from the
curb or edge of the highway;

         g.   Within 25 feet of any intersection, marked crosswalk or
stop sign;

         h.   At a bus stop, taxi-stand, loading and unloading zones
except vehicles performing the intended purpose in those designated
areas;

         i.   In such manner as to obstruct the flow of traffic;

         j.   In violation of any sign posted by the traffic authority
of the town or the State of Connecticut which prohibits, limits or
regulates the parking of vehicles within the town.

      (2)   In a municipal lot:

         a.   In violation of any restrictions posted by order of the
Board of Selectmen or the legal traffic authority of the town;

         b.   In such manner as to obstruct or interfere with the
ingress or egress from the lot;

         c.   In such manner as to obstruct or prevent the movement of
other parked vehicles within the lot.

      (3)   For the purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

         HIGHWAY. Includes any state or public highway, road, avenue,
street, alley, driveway, parkway or thoroughfare under the jurisdiction
of the town.

         MUNICIPAL LOT. Any area under the jurisdiction of the town that
is dedicated and posted for the parking of motor vehicles.

   (B)   Enforcement. Any officer or other designated representative of
the town Police Department may attach to any vehicle found in violation
of any of the regulations set forth in this section, a notice to the
owner or operator thereof that such vehicle has been parked unlawfully,
identifying which prohibited act(s) have been violated and the penalties
for such violation(s) and that the owner or operator shall pay the
penalty for such violation by appearing in person at Police Headquarters
or by mailing such notice, with the amount of the penalty, to the town
Police Department.

   (C)   Collection and disbursement of funds received as penalties. The
town Police Department is authorized to accept payment of the penalties
from any person found to be in violation of this section. The Police
Department shall deposit such payments into an account designated by the
Board of Selectmen. The Police Department shall keep a record of all
such penalties paid to it for such violations and the registration
information of all such vehicles found to be in violation and present
the same to the Board of Police Commissioners as requested by the
Commission. Such report shall be kept for record in the Town Hall.

   (D)   Appeals process. The town hereby adopted the provisions of
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152b, as it may be amended from time to time, which
section establishes a hearing procedure for parking violations as more
particularly set forth in said statute.

   (E)   Snow emergencies. Any vehicle parked on a highway within the
town during, or within 12 hours after, a snowfall of three inches or
more shall be subject to being removed and towed. Such removal shall be
at the risk and sole expense of the owner of the vehicle.

   (F)   Towing. In addition to penalties described in this section and
§ 72.99, a town police officer may order any vehicle which is parked so
as to impede traffic or to obstruct snow removal operations to be towed
from the location in which it is parked to a suitable location at the
owner's or operator's expense. The procedure for such removal is set
forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 14-145 and 14-150.

(Ord. passed 8-2-2018)

§ 72.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 10.99.

   (B)   Each violation of § 72.01 shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $99.

   (C)    The fine for parking in the town in violation of the General
Statutes or the rules enacted by the Board of Selectmen, as the traffic
authority of the town, shall be $5 for each offense.

   (D)   The penalty for violation of § 72.02 shall be $50. If the
designated fine is not paid within 14 calendar days, said fine shall
double in amount.

(Ord. passed 6-24-1976; Ord. passed 9-24-1986; Ord. passed 8-2-2018)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 240

   TM Volume 16, page 15

CHAPTER 73: SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES

Section

   73.01   Operation of snow mobiles and all-terrain vehicles on frozen
surface of public bodies of water

 

   73.99   Penalty

§ 73.01 OPERATION OF SNOW MOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON FROZEN
SURFACE OF PUBLIC BODIES OF WATER.

   No person shall operate a snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle, as
defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-379, at any time on the frozen surface
of the following public bodies of water within the town:

   (A)   Dodge Pond;

   (B)   Gorton Pond;

   (C)   Niantic River;

   (D)   Pattagansett Lake; and

   (E)   Pattagansett River.

(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see § 73.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 11, page 103

§ 73.99 PENALTY.

   Any person violating the provisions of § 73.01 shall be fined not
more than $100.

(Ord. passed - -)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 11, page 103

TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS

   Chapter

      90.   NOISE CONTROL

      91.   ALARM SYSTEMS

      92.   MASS GATHERINGS

      93.   CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR

      94.   FAIR HOUSING

      95.   FIRE PREVENTION

      96.   PARKS AND RECREATION

      97.   STREETS

      98.   ANIMALS

CHAPTER 90: NOISE CONTROL

Section

   90.01   Purpose

   90.02   Definitions

   90.03   Noise levels

   90.04   Exclusions

   90.05   Exemptions

   90.06   Refuse collection noise

   90.07   Motor vehicle noise

   90.08   Variances

   90.09   Severability

 

   90.99   Penalty

§ 90.01 PURPOSE.

   (A)   Pursuant to the general authority of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148
and the specific authority of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-73(c) it is hereby
resolved that to preserve and promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the town; it is in the common interest to
enact a reasonable regulation pertaining to the reduction, control
and/or prevention of noise as to promote a general environment free from
excessive noise and vibration.

   (B)   This chapter is enacted to preserve, protect and promote the
public health, safety, convenience, general welfare, peace, quality of
life and property values for the citizens of the town, and to facilitate
the enjoyment of natural resources and tranquility of the town, through
the reduction, control and prevention of excessive noise and vibration.

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   AMBIENT NOISE or BACKGROUND NOISE. Noise of a measurable intensity
which exists at a point as a result of a combination of many distant
sources individually indistinguishable.

   BOARD OF SELECTMEN. The Board of Selectmen of the Town of East Lyme
or a duly authorized officer.

   COMMERCIAL ZONE. As set forth in the town zoning regulations and all
associated therewith either permitted as a right or as a special use.

   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial
repair, alteration or similar action, for or of public or private
rights-of-way, structures, utilities or similar properties, but
excluding demolition.

   CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT. Any equipment or device operated by any fuel
or electric power used in construction or demolition work.

   DAYTIME HOURS. The hours between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., Monday
through Saturday, and the hours 9:00 a.m. through 10:00 p.m. on Sundays.

   DECIBEL. A logarithmic unit of measure in measuring magnitudes or
sound. The symbol of dB.

   DEMOLITION. Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of
structures, utilities, public or private right-or-way surfaces or
similar properties.

   DOMESTIC POWER EQUIPMENT. Including, but not limited to, power saws,
drills, grinders, lawn and garden tools and other domestic power
equipment intended for use in residential areas by a homeowner.

   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
perceived imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands
immediate action.

   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle authorized by the State of
Connecticut to have sound warning devices, such as sirens and bell,
which can lawfully be used when responding to an emergency. (Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 14-283)

   EMERGENCY WORK. Work made necessary to restore property to a safe
condition following an emergency or work required to protect persons or
property from exposure of imminent danger.

   IMPULSE NOISE. Sound of short duration, usually less than one second,
with an abrupt onset and rapid decay.

   INDUSTRIAL ZONE. As set forth in the town zoning regulations and all
uses associated therewith, either permitted as a right or a special use.

   MOTOR VEHICLE. Per Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-1.

   MUFFLER. A device for abating sounds such as escaping gases.

   NIGHTTIME HOURS. The hours between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., Sunday
evening through Saturday morning, except that NIGHT shall mean the hours
between 10:00 p.m. Saturday and 9:00 a.m. Sunday.

   NOISE. Any sound, the intensity of which exceeds the standards set
forth in § 90.03.

   NOISE LEVEL. The sound pressure level as measured with a sound level
meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is designed db(A)
or dBA.

   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, syndicate,
company, trust, corporation, municipality, agency or political or
administrative subdivision of the state or other legal entity of any
kind.

   PREMISES. Any building, structure, land or portion thereof, including
all appurtenances, and shall include yard, lots, courts, inner yards and
real properties without building or improvements owned or controlled by
a person. The emitter’s PREMISES includes contiguous publicly dedicated
street and highway rights-or-way, all road rights-or-way and waters of
the state.

   PROPERTY LINE. That real or imaginary line along the ground surface
and its vertical extension which separates real property owned or
controlled by any person from contiguous real property owned or
controlled by another person and separates real property from the public
right-of-way.

   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway,
sidewalk, alley, park, waterway, railroad or similar place which is
owned or controlled by a governmental entity.

   RECREATIONAL MOTORIZED VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle, whether or not
duly licensed and registered, including, but not limited to, commercial
or noncommercial racing vehicles, motorcycles, dirt bikes, go-carts,
ATVs, snowmobiles, amphibious craft, campers and dune buggies, but not
including motorboats or aircraft.

   RESIDENTIAL ZONE. Those residential districts as defined and set
forth in the town zoning regulations and all uses associated therewith
either permitted as a right or as a special use.

   SOUND. A transmission of energy through solid, liquid or gaseous
media in the form of vibrations which constitute alterations in pressure
or position of the particles in the medium and which, in air, evoke
physiological sensations, including, but not limited to, an auditory
response when impinging on the ear.

   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument used to take sound-level
measurements and which should conform, as a minimum, to the operational
specifications of the American National Standards Institute for Sound
Level Meters S1.4. 1971 (Type S2A).

   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithm to the base 10 of
the ratio of the pressure of a sound to the reference pressure of 20
micronewtons per square meter and is expressed in decibels (dB).

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 90.03 NOISE LEVELS.

   (A)   No person shall cause or allow the emission of excessive noise
beyond the boundaries of his or her premises in excess of the following
noise levels:

 

Property Use Emitter

Property Use Receptor

Residential

Nonresidential

Day

Night

Day

Night

Nonresidential zone emitter

55 dBA

45 dBA

52 dBA

45 dBA

Residential zone emitter

55 dBA

45 dBA

55 dBA

45 dBA

 

   (B)   Measurements shall be taken at a point on the property line of
the emitter closest to the receptor and/or at the property line at any
neighboring property (that may or may not be contiguous) with a more
restrictive decibel allowance. In cases where the emitter is located on
jointly owned property, such as industrial parks and condominiums, the
noise measuring equipment (i.e., microphone) shall be placed at a
50-foot distance from the noise source. The microphone shall be placed
no closer than five feet from any wall and not less than three feet
above ground that is located about one foot beyond the boundary of the
emitter’s premises within the receptors premises. The emitter’s premises
include his or her individual unit of land or group of contiguous
parcels under same ownership as indicted by public land records.

      (1)   No person shall cause or allow the emission of impulse noise
in excess of 80 dBA peak sound pressure level during the night time to
any residential noise zone.

      (2)   No person shall cause or allow the emission of impulse noise
in excess of 100 dBA peak sound pressure level at any time to any zone.

      (3)   In those individual cases where the background noise levels
caused by sources not subject to this chapter exceed the standards
contained herein, a source shall be considered to cause excessive noise
if the noise emitted by such source exceeds the background noise level
by 5 dBA, provided that no source subject to the provisions of the noise
levels in division (A) above, shall emit noise in excess of 80 dBA at
any time, and provided that this section does not decrease the
permissible levels of the other sections of the chapter.

(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see § 90.99

§ 90.04 EXCLUSIONS.

   These levels shall not apply to noise emitted by or related to:

   (A)   Natural phenomena;

   (B)   Any bell or chime from any building clock, school or church;

   (C)   Any siren, whistle or bell lawfully used by emergency vehicles
or any other alarm system used in an emergency situation; provided
however, that burglar alarms not terminating in 30 minutes after being
activated shall be unlawful;

   (D)   Warning devices required by the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration of other state of federal safety regulations;

   (E)   Farming equipment or farming activity; and

   (F)   Train horns and signals.

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 90.05 EXEMPTIONS.

   The following shall be exempt from these regulations subject to
special conditions as spelled out:

   (A)   Noise generated by any construction equipment which is operated
during daytime hours. Noise generated by construction equipment during
nighttime hours shall not exceed the maximum noise levels as specified
on § 90.03;

   (B)   Noise created as a result of or relating to an emergency;

   (C)   Noise from domestic power equipment such as, but not limited
to, power saws, sanders, grinders, lawn and garden tools or similar
devices operated during daytime hours;

   (D)   Noise from snow removal equipment;

   (E)   Noise from demolition work conducted during daytime hours. When
considered emergency work, demolition shall be exempted at all times
from the noise levels set in this regulation;

   (F)   Noise created by any aircraft flight operations which are
specifically permitted by the Federal Aviation Administration;

   (G)   Noise created by any recreational activities which are
permitted by law and for which a license or permit has been granted by
the town or state, including, but not limited to, parades, sporting
events, concerts and firework displays;

   (H)   Noise created by blasting other than that conducted in
connection with construction activities shall be exempted, provided that
the blasting is conducted between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. local time at
specified hours previously announced to the local public or provided
that a permit for such blasting is obtained from local authorities; and

   (I)   Noise generated by the police and other established shooting
facilities as permitted by state firearms laws, Conn. Gen. Stat. §
22a-74a.

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 90.06 REFUSE COLLECTION NOISE.

   All refuse collectors shall comply with the noise level standards as
established in this chapter while engaging in refuse collection at each
location. For purposes of this chapter, the term REFUSE COLLECTORS shall
be synonymous with private haulers, and all other persons that
commercially engage in the collection and transportation of refuse and
other debris.

(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see § 90.99

§ 90.07 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE.

   (A)   All motor vehicles as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 246,
§ 14-1, operated within the limits of the town shall be subject to the
noise standards and decibel levels set forth in the regulations
authorized in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 14-80a.

   (B)   No sound-amplifying devices on or within motor vehicles shall
emit noise in excess of the noise levels as specified in the noise
levels section (§ 90.03).

   (C)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any
recreational motorized vehicle off a public right-of-way in such a
manner that the sound level emitted therefrom exceeds the limits set
forth in § 90.03.

(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see § 90.99

§ 90.08 VARIANCES.

   (A)   Any person living or doing business in the town may apply to
the town’s Board of Selectmen for variance from one or more of the
provisions of the chapter which are more stringent than the State
Department of Environmental Protection regulations for the control of
noise; provided that the applicant supplied all of the following
information to the Board of Selectmen at least 20 days prior to the
start of said activity:

      (1)   The location and nature of the activity;

      (2)   The time period and hours of operation of said activity;

      (3)   The nature and intensity of the noise that will be
generated; and

      (4)   Any other information required by the Board of Selectmen.

   (B)   No variance from these regulations shall be allowed unless it
has been demonstrated that:

      (1)   The proposed activity will not violate any provisions of the
State Department of Environmental Protection regulations;

      (2)   The noise levels generated by the proposed activity will not
constitute a danger to the public health; and

      (3)   Compliance with the regulations constitutes an unreasonable
hardship on the applicant.

   (C)   The application for variance shall be reviewed and either
approved or rejected at least five days prior to the proposed start of
said activity. The approval or rejection shall be writing and shall
state the condition(s) of approval, if any, or the reason(s) for
rejection.

   (D)   Failure to rule on the application in the designated time shall
constitute approval of the variance.

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 90.09 SEVERABILITY.

   If any term or provision, or any portion thereof, of this chapter, or
the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall, to any
extent, be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of the chapter, or
the application of such term or provision to persons or circumstances,
other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall
not be affected thereby, and each term and provision of this chapter
shall be valid and be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Should a court of competent jurisdiction find any provision or part of a
provision unenforceable as written the court may reform such provision
or part of a provision to render it enforceable consistent with the
general intent of the remaining portion of such provision and/or this
chapter.

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 90.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   The Town Police Department (the “Police Department”) shall be
responsible or investigating and documenting, through acoustic
measurements, violations of this chapter.

   (B)   Any person or entity violating any provision of the chapter
shall be fined $90 and each additional violation shall constitute a
separate offense. Any certified law enforcement agent with jurisdiction
in the town is hereby authorized to issue infraction ticket(s) pursuant
to Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 51-164p(a), 51-164m and 51-164n.

   (C)   The provisions of this chapter are in addition to, and not in
lieu of, any other remedies available to the town under the Connecticut
General Statutes and other sections of the Town Charter. The issuance of
infraction tickets under this chapter shall not preclude the exercise of
such other remedies. In addition, the town may seek injunctive relief
for continued or repeated violations.

(Ord. passed - -)

CHAPTER 91: ALARM SYSTEMS

Section

   91.01   Purpose

   91.02   Applicability

   91.03   Definitions

   91.04   Registrations

   91.05   Connection to telephone lines restriction

   91.06   Waiver of charges

   91.07   Enforcement

   91.08   Disclaimer of liability

 

   91.99   Penalty

§ 91.01 PURPOSE.

   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the registration,
operation and use of burglar, fire, medical or any other alarms or
emergency signaling devices within the town and to support and enforce
the maintenance of said system.

(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 22, page 250

§ 91.02 APPLICABILITY.

   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any person or entity
who operates or owns any alarm system that automatically summons the
police, fire, medical or ambulance personnel or other town agency in
response to an alarm signal.

(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)

§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   ALARM OWNER OR USER. Any person, firm, corporation or other business
entity that owns, controls, installs, operates or maintains any alarm
system as defined in division (1) of the definition for alarm systems
below.

   ALARM SYSTEMS.

      (1)   ALARM SYSTEM. Any device or equipment which is capable of
activating the municipal fire alarm system, or is capable of
automatically calling and relaying recorded emergency messages to any
state police or municipal police or fire department telephone number, or
which is capable of automatically calling and relaying recorded
emergency messages or other forms of emergency signals to an
intermediate third party which shall thereafter call and relay such
emergency message to a state police or municipal police or fire
department telephone number.

      (2)   ALL ALARM SYSTEM. Any system which sounds an audible signal
that may be heard outside the protected premises. Said systems shall be
equipped with a device that will limit the duration of such audible
signal to not more than ten minutes.

      (3)   BURGLAR ALARM. Any alarm system falling within the
definition of alarm system above which is designed to transmit a signal
in event of intrusion, hold up or other type of emergency situation.

      (4)   FIRE ALARM. Any system which falls within the definition of
alarm system above which is designated to transmit an alarm relating to
fire.

   ALARM APPEAL BOARD. Consists of a three-member panel selected by the
First Selectman from the following officials: the resident state
trooper, the Chief of Police, the Chiefs of the Niantic and Flanders
Fire Departments, and the East Lyme Fire Marshal.

   AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING SERVICE. An alarm system which
automatically sends over regular telephone lines, by direct connection
or otherwise, a pre-recorded voice message indicating the existence of
an emergency situation that the alarm is designated to detect.

   CENTRAL STATION OPERATING COMPANY. A company equipped to receive
burglar, fire, panic, intruder or hold-up alarms from each of its
customers and which then transmits to the state police or Town Emergency
Communications Center the location and type of any such alarm the
central station operating company receives.

   FALSE ALARM. An alarm (such as a fire or burglar alarm) that is set.

   KEY HOLDER. Any person whose name appears on the registration form as
a key holder or is designated in writing by the alarm owner or user to
respond to the premises of alarm activation when requested by the Police
Department or Fire Department (e.g., reset system, gain entry and the
like).

   SELECTMEN. The Board is designated to hear appeals and assess fines
and penalties.

(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)

§ 91.04 REGISTRATIONS.

   (A)   The alarm owner/user or central station operating company
shall, within 30 days of installation or activation of an alarm system,
complete a registration form provided by the town which shall include
information concerning the alarm device, location, key holder(s) and any
other necessary information.

   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the alarm owner/user or
central station operating company to notify the town within ten days, in
writing, of changes in registration information.

(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)

§ 91.05 CONNECTION TO TELEPHONE LINES RESTRICTION.

   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or other business entity shall
connect to a telephone company’s network any automatic dialing device or
other alarm system which causes the number “911” to be automatically
dialed.

   (B)   Automatic dialing devices may only be connected to a seven
digit telephone number (excluding area code) assigned by the town. The
automatic dialing device must be equipped to disconnect after three
rings.

(Ord. effective 2-18-2003) Penalty, see § 91.99

§ 91.06 WAIVER OF CHARGES.

   (A)   Upon receipt of a timely appeal for a false alarm charge or
registration violation, the Alarm Appeal Board shall hold a hearing to
consider waiving said charge. The Appeal Board shall mail a notice of
the time and place of said hearing to the alarm owner/user at his or her
last known address at least 15 days before the hearing. On the basis of
information provided by the alarm owner/user and other information
introduced at the hearing, the Board shall affirm the charge or waive
the charge.

   (B)   An appeal shall be considered timely if written notice thereof
is filed at the office of the First Selectman within 15 days after
notice of the false alarm charge or registration violation is mailed to
the alarm owner/user.

   (C)   If an alarm owner/user notifies the proper agency that will
receive his or her alarm when activated, Town Communications (739-3149)
or State Police Dispatch (848-6500) at least one hour prior to any
service test, repair or adjustment of an alarm system that may activate
a false alarm, no charge shall be imposed. In the case of fire alarm
systems, the alarm owner/user shall notify the Town Communications
Center at 739-3149 as soon as all service, test, repair or adjustment of
the alarm system has been completed.

(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)

§ 91.07 ENFORCEMENT.

   The town may institute civil proceedings to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.

(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)

§ 91.08 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.

   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, the town and its
departments, officers, agents and employees shall be under no obligation
whatsoever to ensure or verify the adequacy, proper installation,
maintenance, use or resetting of any alarm device. The town assumes no
liability for the failure of alarm devices. Each alarm owner/user shall
be deemed to hold and save harmless the town and its departments,
officers, agents and employees from any and all liability arising out
of, resulting from or relating to an alarm owner/user’s installation,
operation, maintenance and use of an alarm system.

(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)

§ 91.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   In the event there are three false alarm responses to the same
location within the same calendar year, a written warning will be issued
to the alarm owner/user upon the occurrence of the third false alarm,
notifying them of impending charges for further false alarms occurring
within a 12-month period.

   (B)   A charge of $25 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user upon
the occurrence of a fourth false alarm response within a 12-month
period.

   (C)   A charge of $50 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user upon
the occurrence of all subsequent false alarm responses after four within
the 12-month period.

   (D)   A charge of $50 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user for
failure to register an alarm system with the town emergency services.

   (E)   A charge of $50 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user for
failure to provide notification of any changes in registration to the
town emergency services.

   (F)   A charge of $50 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user for
the failure of a key holder to timely respond to the premises of the
alarm when requested by the Police Department or Fire Department.

   (G)   A charge of $50 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user upon
the occurrence of any automatic dialing violation as set forth in §
91.05.

   (H)   A charge of $25 shall be imposed on the alarm owner/user for
the failure of an alarm owner/user to notify the Emergency Services
Communication Center of an alarm system service test, repair or
adjustment of an alarm system which results in a false alarm response.

   (I)   Charges for violations will be payable to the town and
collected by the Police Department or the First Selectman’s designee and
deposited into the General Fund.

(Ord. effective 2-18-2003)

CHAPTER 92: MASS GATHERINGS

Section

   92.01   License required

   92.02   Definitions

   92.03   Licenses

   92.04   Application

   92.05   Processing of application

   92.06   Revocation of license

   92.07   Appeals

   92.08   Enforcement

   92.09   Exclusions

 

   92.99   Penalty

§ 92.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.

   In order to preserve the health, welfare and safety of the citizens
of the town by requiring at assemblies adequate water facilities,
sanitary facilities, illumination and other safety precautions so as to
minimize the risk of injury or illness to any person and in order to
promote the safe, orderly and uninterrupted passage of vehicular and/or
pedestrian traffic, a license shall be required before an actual or
reasonably anticipated assembly of over 200 people shall be allowed in
the town.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 286

§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   ASSEMBLY. A company of persons gathered together at any location at
any single time for any purpose.

   PERSONS. Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, company,
association, society or group.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 286

§ 92.03 LICENSES.

   (A)   No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct, advertise,
act as entrepreneur, organize, manage or sell or give tickets to an
actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of over 200 people, whether on
public or private property, unless a license to hold the assembly has
first been issued by the First Selectman. A license to hold an assembly
issued to one person shall permit any person to engage in any lawful
activity in connection with the holding of the licensed assembly.

   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each assembly and each
location in which such people assemble or can reasonably be anticipated
to assemble. No license shall be issued for an assembly for more than
three days, but the First Selectman may extend the permit if it appears
that the requirements of this chapter have been complied with and that a
new permit would be granted if applied for. No extension shall be for
more than three days, but more than one extension may be granted.

   (C)   A license shall permit the assembly of only the maximum number
of people stated in the license. The licensee shall not sell tickets to
nor permit to assemble at the licensed location more than that number of
people.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1982) Penalty, see § 92.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 286

§ 92.04 APPLICATION.

   (A)   Application for a license to hold such an actual or anticipated
assembly shall be made in writing to the First Selectman at least five
days in advance of such assembly.

   (B)   The application shall contain a statement made upon oath or
affirmation that the statements contained therein are true and correct
to the best of the knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed by the
individual making application in the case of an individual or by a duly
authorized officer or agent in the case of a corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association, group or society. Such authorization of the
officer or agent shall be in writing.

   (C)   The application shall contain and disclose:

      (1)   The name, evidence of majority, residence and mailing
address of all persons required to sign the application by division (B)
above;

      (2)   The address and legal description of all property upon which
the assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence and
mailing address of the record owner or owners of all such property;

      (3)   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly
is to be held and a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the
record owner or owners of all such property that the applicant has
permission to use such property for such an assembly;

      (4)   The nature or purpose of the assembly;

      (5)   The total number of days or hours during which the assembly
is to last;

      (6)   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall
permit to assemble at any time, provided the maximum number shall not
exceed the maximum number which can reasonably assemble at the location
of the assembly in consideration of the nature of the assembly and
provided, where the assembly is to continue overnight, the maximum
number shall not exceed the maximum number which is allowed to sleep
within the boundaries of the location of the assembly by the zoning
regulations of the town;

      (7)   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any;

      (8)   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of
people permitted to assemble;

      (9)   The plans for supplying potable water meeting all federal
and state requirements for purity, including the source, amount
available and location of outlets. The potable water shall be sufficient
to provide drinking water for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one gallon per person per day;

      (10)   The plans for supplying toilet and lavatory facilities,
including the source, number, location and type. The plans shall provide
for separate enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting all state
and local specifications, conveniently located throughout the grounds,
sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one toilet for every 200 females and
at least one toilet for every 300 males, together with an efficient,
sanitary means of disposing of waste matter deposited, which is in
compliance with all state and local laws and regulation;

      (11)   The plans for holding, collecting and disposing of solid
waste material. The plans shall provide for a sanitary method of
disposing of solid waste, in compliance with state and local laws and
regulations, sufficient to dispose of the solid waste production of the
maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least two and
one-half pounds of solid waste per person per day, together with a plan
for collecting all such waste at least once each day of the assembly,
sufficient personnel to perform the task and sufficient trash cans with
tight-fitting lids;

      (12)   If the assembly is to continue during the hours of
darkness, the plans to illuminate the location of the assembly,
including the source and amount of power and the location of lamps. The
plans shall provide for illumination sufficient to light the entire area
of the assembly at the rate of at least five foot candles, but not to
shine directly on properties adjacent to the boundaries of the location
of the assembly;

      (13)   The plans for parking vehicles, including size and location
of lots, points of highway access and interior roads, including routes
between highway access and parking lots. The plans shall provide for a
parking area inside of the assembly grounds or off street within a
reasonable distance from the assembly grounds sufficient to provide
parking space for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the
rate of at least one parking space for every four persons;

      (14)   If the assembly is to continue overnight, the plans for
camping facilities including facilities available and their location.
The plans shall provide for camping facilities, if any, in compliance
with all state and local requirements, sufficient to provide camping
accommodations for the maximum number of people to be assembled;

      (15)   The plans for security, including the number of guards,
their deployment, and their names, addresses, credentials and hours of
availability. Such guards shall be either regularly employed, duly
sworn, off-duty constables or private guards. The plans shall provide
for sufficient guards to provide adequate security for the maximum
number of people to be assembled, giving consideration to the nature of
the assembly;

      (16)   The plans for fire protection, including the number, type
and location of all protective devices including alarms and
extinguishers, and the number of emergency fire personnel available. The
plans shall provide for sufficient protective devices, fire lanes and
escapes to meet all state and local standards for the location of the
assembly and for sufficient emergency personnel to operate efficiently
the required equipment;

      (17)   The plans for sound control and sound amplification, if
any, including the number, location and power of amplifiers and
speakers. The plans shall provide for all reasonably necessary
precautions to ensure that the sound of the assembly will not carry
beyond the boundaries of the location of the assembly; and

      (18)   The plans for food concessions and concessioners who will
be allowed to operate the grounds including the names and addresses of
all concessioners and their license or permit numbers.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 286

§ 92.05 PROCESSING OF APPLICATION.

   The completed application for a license shall be processed within
three days of its receipt and shall be issued if there is compliance
with all conditions.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 286

§ 92.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.

   A license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked
by the First Selectman at any time if any of the conditions necessary
for the issuing of the license are not complied with, or if any
condition previously met ceases to be complied with.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 286

§ 92.07 APPEALS.

   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the denial or revocation of a license
under this chapter may appeal to the Board of Selectmen, provided such
appeal is taken within 15 days from such denial or revocation. The Board
of Selectmen shall consider and decide such appeal at its next regularly
scheduled meeting after filing of the appeal provided that such appeal
has been presented to the Board least 48 hours before such regularly
scheduled meeting. In the event such appeal has not been filed at least
48 hours before the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board, such
appeal shall be considered and decided at the second regularly scheduled
meeting following the filing of said appeal. In no event shall more than
16 days elapse between the filing of such appeal and the rendering of a
decision by the Board. If no regular meeting is scheduled within said
16-day period, the Board of Selectmen shall hold a special meeting
within said 16 days to consider and decide such appeal.

   (B)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Board of Selectmen on
any appeal regarding the denial or revocation of a license under this
chapter may appeal to the Superior Court provided such appeal is taken
within 15 days from the rendering of a decision by the Board of
Selectmen.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 286

§ 92.08 ENFORCEMENT.

   (A)   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by injunction in
any court of competent jurisdiction.

   (B)   The holding of an assembly in violation of any provision or
condition contained in this chapter shall be deemed a public nuisance
and may be abated as such.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 286

§ 92.09 EXCLUSIONS.

   This chapter shall not apply to the following assemblies:

   (A)   Religious services;

   (B)   Political meetings and demonstrations;

   (C)   Funerals;

   (D)   Weddings;

   (E)   Assemblies sponsored or authorized by any town agency;

   (F)   Athletic events;

   (G)   Assemblies conducted within any permanent structure; and

   (H)   Assemblies required to be licensed by other provisions of the
Connecticut General Statutes or town ordinances.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 286

§ 92.99 PENALTY.

   Any person who violates this chapter shall be fined not less than
$100. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1982)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 286

CHAPTER 93: CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR

Section

   93.01   Consumption restricted

 

   93.99   Penalty

§ 93.01 CONSUMPTION RESTRICTED.

   No person shall consume alcoholic liquor, as defined in the
Connecticut General Statutes, in any of the following areas in the town,
either inside a motor vehicle or otherwise:

   (A)   In any part of the town designated as a commercial district by
the Town Zoning Commission, except as follows:

      (1)   In accordance with the provisions of a permit granted
therefor by the Connecticut Liquor Control Commission; and

      (2)   On any residential property.

   (B)   On any property owned by the town, except that:

      (1)   At McCook Point Park and Beach, alcoholic liquor may be
consumed in accordance with the ordinance entitled “Ordinance Concerning
Areas Under Jurisdiction of Parks and Recreation Commission” (as
codified in § 96.15 of this code of ordinances);

      (2)   The Board of Selectmen may grant a special permit for the
consumption of alcoholic liquor to any nonprofit organization on the
following terms and conditions:

         (a)   Such organization shall demonstrate that there will be no
disorderly assembly, disturbing noise, traffic control problem or
interference with the peace and safety of the inhabitants of the town;

         (b)   Such organization may be required to show evidence of
financial responsibility and insurance, and to post a bond sufficient to
indemnify the town for any expenses resulting from the use of such
permit;

         (c)   The grant of such permit shall be subject to compliance
with the provisions of the Connecticut General Statutes relating to
alcoholic liquor; and

         (d)   Such permit may be revoked at any time when, in the
opinion of the Board of Selectmen or its agent, the provisions of this
chapter have been violated.

(Ord. passed 8-26-1975; Ord. passed 11-19-1998) Penalty, see § 93.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 139; TM Volume 21, page 605 Amended

§ 93.99 PENALTY.

   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not more than $100.

(Ord. passed 8-26-1975; Ord. passed 11-19-1998)

CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING

Section

   94.01   Fair Housing Officer

   94.02   Grievance procedure

§ 94.01 FAIR HOUSING OFFICER.

   A Fair Housing Officer shall be appointed by the First Selectman.
Said Officer shall have the responsibility and authority to administer
and implement the fair housing plan and shall perform duties which
include the following:

   (A)   Keep current on all pertinent state and federal legislation
relating to fair housing;

   (B)   Disseminate information concerning the town’s commitment to
fair housing to community groups, local real estate brokers, local
lending institutions, landlords, developers, town officials and the
general public;

   (C)   Participating in educational workshops or seminars concerning
the ramification of fair housing legislation and the town’s commitment
to fair housing;

   (D)   Develop and distribute the forms needed to properly file a fair
housing grievance (see § 94.02);

   (E)   Assist persons who feel they have been discriminated against,
by trying to effect voluntary compliance on the part of the landlord or
seller or by assisting them in filing a complaint with the proper state
and federal agencies (see § 94.02);

   (F)   Attend meetings of the Board of Selectmen and keep the Board
informed of all grievances and other related fair housing activities;
and

   (G)   Maintain a separate “fair housing” file which documents all
actions taken to affirmatively further fair housing opportunities in the
town. Said file shall be open for inspection to the public within the
bounds of confidentiality guaranteed by law.

(Ord. effective 7-10-1999)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, Page 666

§ 94.02 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.

   (A)   Any person who feels that he or she has been discriminated
against in an attempt to secure housing within the town may file a
complaint with the Fair Housing Officer of the town at the Town Hall. To
facilitate and standardize the complaint filing procedure, forms
provided by the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall be
used and additional forms or background information will be developed as
required.

   (B)   The Fair Housing Officer shall review the complaint, and if the
Fair Housing Officer cannot effect voluntary compliance with the law on
the local level, the complaint shall be referred to the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and the State Commission on Human Rights
and Opportunities. The Fair Housing Officer shall be responsible for
keeping track of all referrals and providing whatever assistance is
needed by the agencies involved.

   (C)   All complaints and follow-ups shall be recorded and kept in the
fair housing file (see § 94.01(G)).

(Ord. effective 7-10-1999)

CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION

Section

Establishment of Fire Zones

   95.01   Definition

   95.02   Establishment

   95.03   Appeal from establishment

   95.04   Marking required

   95.05   Parking prohibited

   95.06   Towing authorized

   95.07   Citation; payment in lieu of fine

Underground Storage of Hazardous Substances and Their Disposal

   95.20   Definitions

   95.21   Enforcement

   95.22   Unlawful discharge

   95.23   Immediate action required

   95.24   Registration

   95.25   Permit required

   95.26   Compliance

   95.27   Testing of tanks

   95.28   Replacement of tanks

   95.29   Appeals

   95.30   Provisions not applicable for a tank capacity of not more
than 1,000 gallons

   95.31   Severability

 

   95.99   Penalty

ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE ZONES

§ 95.01 DEFINITION.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   FIRE ZONE. A designated, unobstructed passageway sufficient in size
to permit free passage of fire and other emergency equipment from a
public highway to all necessary areas or portions of any private or
public property as hereinafter set forth.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 115

§ 95.02 ESTABLISHMENT.

   Whenever the Fire Marshal shall determine that the reasonable safety
of persons occupying or using any premises, public or private, having a
capacity of at least 15 persons requires the establishment of a fire
zone for orderly access of fire and other emergency equipment, he or she
shall establish such fire zone by written order and cause to be made
public announcement of such fire zone establishment. He or she shall
cause a copy of such order to be delivered to the owner or owners, or
agents thereof, of any private land on which such fire zone is
established and file a copy of such order with the First Selectman.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 115

§ 95.03 APPEAL FROM ESTABLISHMENT.

   Any person aggrieved by such order may file with the Board of
Selectmen within 30 days after date of such order written notice of
appeal, setting forth therein reasons of aggrievement. After hearing,
the Board of Selectmen may affirm, modify or vacate such order.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 115

§ 95.04 MARKING REQUIRED.

   Upon establishment of a fire zone, the Board of Selectmen shall cause
to be erected or installed, adequate signs, marking and other devices to
delineate said fire zone.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 115

§ 95.05 PARKING PROHIBITED.

   No person shall park, or permit to stand, a motor vehicle in a fire
zone which has been established in accordance with this subchapter,
except when actually picking up or discharging passengers. The
registered owner of a motor vehicle shall be presumed to be the operator
of such vehicle.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1981) Penalty, see § 95.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 115

§ 95.06 TOWING AUTHORIZED.

   Any motor vehicle found standing in a fire zone which has been
established in accordance with this subchapter may be towed, upon
direction of any constable or state police officer, to any public or
private parking facility, and all expense of such towing and of any
subsequent storage shall be borne by the registered owner of such
vehicle.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 115

§ 95.07 CITATION; PAYMENT IN LIEU OF FINE.

   Whenever a vehicle is found standing in violation of this subchapter,
any constable or state police officer shall serve upon the owner or
operator of such vehicle or place upon such vehicle a notice directing
the owner or operator thereof to appear at the Police Department prior
to a time specified in said notice. If any person receiving said notice
shall appear as directed, and shall pay an amount of $5 as specified in
said notice, such payment shall bar a prosecution for violation of the
subchapter.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 115

UNDERGROUND STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND THEIR DISPOSAL

§ 95.20 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   FAILURE. Any leak, split, blockage, malfunction, improper
installation or similar occurrence which can or does result in a
discharge of a hazardous substance out of a liquid storage system.

   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. All liquid, hydrocarbon products, including,
but not limited to, gasoline, fuel oil and diesel oil, and any other
toxic and corrosive chemicals, industrial waste, radioactive materials
or any substance injurious to the environment, the aquifer or waterways.
This also includes solid materials which if exposed to water will
partially dissolve, forming a hazardous liquid and any substance that is
defined as hazardous by the federal government or the State of
Connecticut.

   IMPERMEABLE MATERIAL. A layer of natural and/or human-made material
of sufficient thickness, density and composition as to prevent the
discharge into the underlying ground water of any hazardous substances
for a period of at least as long as the maximum anticipated time during
which the hazardous substances will be in contact with the material.

   LIQUID STORAGE SYSTEM. Any combination of tanks, barrels,
transmission pipes, vents and pipe fittings which are used or designed
to be used for the storage and/or transmission of hazardous substances,
except a sewage treatment system approved by the Town Director of Health
or his or her agent, or by the State Department of Health.

   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, firm, corporation,
or any and all combinations of individuals acting in concert as well as
individuals.

   WATERWAY. All surface waters, fresh and salt waters, within the Town
of East Lyme.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 117

§ 95.21 ENFORCEMENT.

   (A)   This law shall be enforced by the Building Official who is
hereby authorized to make inspections of all types of liquid storage
systems throughout the town, to solicit and maintain inventory of such
systems and to ensure that such systems conform with the provisions of
this subchapter.

   (B)   The Board of Selectmen may adopt rules and regulations to
enforce and carry out the intent of this subchapter.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 117

§ 95.22 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE.

   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge hazardous substances upon the
surface or into the subsurface land, aquifer or waterway anywhere in the
town by whatever method such discharge may occur.

   (B)   Unlawful discharge includes, but is not limited to:

      (1)   Failure of underground liquid storage tanks, pipes or
connections;

      (2)   Failure of above-ground liquid storage systems;

      (3)   Disposal in landfills, drainage systems, any waterways or on
the land surface;

      (4)   Spills which occur during transport on public or private
property; and

      (5)   Disposal or storage of hazardous substances including, but
not limited to, contaminated material, soil, sand or gravel anywhere in
the town.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981) Penalty, see § 95.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 117

§ 95.23 IMMEDIATE ACTION REQUIRED.

   Should the discharge of hazardous substances from any storage system
occur as described in this subchapter, the responsible person, in
addition to any other penalty as authorized in this subchapter will be
required to take immediate action to reclaim the discharged material,
restore the environment to its original state and repair any physical
damage caused by the spill, explosion or clean-up operations.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 117

§ 95.24 REGISTRATION.

   (A)   Any person owning a liquid storage system must register with
the Building Official by providing a site plan of the property and a
complete description of the system, including the location, number,
size, composition, type of liquid being stored and date of original
installation of tanks and transmission pipes. Such registry must be done
within one year from the effective date of this subchapter on forms
prescribed by the Building Official.

   (B)   Liquid storage systems installed in a building basement in
accordance with existing codes are exempted from this subchapter.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 117

§ 95.25 PERMIT REQUIRED.

   (A)   It shall be unlawful to install, or replace, any liquid storage
system without first securing a permit for the same and paying a permit
fee as established by the Board of Selectmen. The permit request shall
be prepared on forms prescribed by the Building Official and shall
include any information required by him or her including the
manufacturer’s installation instructions.

   (B)   It shall be unlawful to repair any leak in a liquid storage
system without notifying the Building Official and the Fire Marshal
within 24 hours of discovering the leak. No permit or notification is
required for mechanical repairs.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981) Penalty, see § 95.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 117

§ 95.26 COMPLIANCE.

   (A)   All storage systems which are to be constructed or installed
after the effective date of this subchapter shall comply with the
following construction, installation and testing specifications in
addition to any requirements of state and federal law.

      (1)   All underground liquid storage systems of more than
1,000-gallon capacity shall be of vaulted construction, equipped with a
failure detection system and protected both internally and externally
from corrosion and structural failure. Non-corrosive tanks and
transmission pipes listed by Underwriters’ Laboratories may be used in
lieu of vaulted construction.

      (2)   Installation must be done strictly in accordance with
manufacturer’s specifications and in accordance with installation
procedures approved by the Building Official and/or Fire Marshal.
Construction may proceed from stage to stage only upon approval by the
inspecting official.

      (3)   The entire system shall be tested before it is covered as
required by the Building Official and/or Fire Marshal. If a failure is
detected, work may not proceed until the failure is repaired and the
system is retested and no additional failures are found.

   (B)   (1)   Above ground liquid storage systems above 1,000-gallon
capacity must be placed within drainage collection areas sized and
designed to capture and hold the entire contents of the largest tank of
the storage system and to facilitate the recovery of any spillage, in
the event of failure. Such drainage areas shall be constructed of
impermeable material.

      (2)   Above ground storage of solid material which can produce a
hazardous liquid when it comes into contact with water, must also be
stored within a drainage area designed to collect the rain run-off and
to recover the dissolved material. Such material may be permanently
roofed in lieu of a drainage collection system, but the material must
still be stored on a solid surface impermeable to any liquid produced
from the material.

      (3)   Above ground systems and above ground parts of underground
systems must be reasonably protected from damage by motor vehicles,
trucks and vandalism.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 117

§ 95.27 TESTING OF TANKS.

   (A)   Every existing underground liquid storage system over 1,000
gallons which does not conform on the effective date of this subchapter
must be tested for failure, using the final test in the National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) #329 or other test of equivalent or
superior accuracy as approved by the official and in accordance with the
following schedule:

 

  ------------------------------------------ -------------------
  Age of System at Registration (In Years)   Year to Be Tested
  1—9                                        Every 4 years
  10—19                                      Every 3 years
  20 or more                                 Every 2 years
  ------------------------------------------ -------------------

 

   (B)   Such testing must be performed by a qualified professional
testing service doing business in the state and the test results must be
presented to the Building Official in a signed and notarized report
before December 31 of the year indicated in the schedule.

      (1)   Fiberglass tanks shall be tested ten years after
registration and vaulted tank tests are to be waived at the discretion
of the Building Official.

      (2)   If failure is detected, that part of the system which failed
must be pumped out immediately and cannot be reused until the system is
repaired or replaced as provided for in this subchapter. Recovery of the
hazardous substance shall proceed in accordance with the law.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 117

§ 95.28 REPLACEMENT OF TANKS.

   Any replacement of underground liquid storage systems in whole or in
part as directed by the Building Official must conform with
specifications for new construction.

   (A)   Any underground liquid storage system which fails, but is less
than ten years old may be repaired at the direction of the Building
Official and in accordance with specifications approved by the Building
Official. Any system which fails and which is ten years old or more,
must be replaced in accordance with this subchapter.

   (B)   Any underground liquid storage system which has not been or
intended to be in continual use for a period of one year shall be
reported within 60 days by the owner to the Building Official.

   (C)   Any underground liquid storage system which is not intended to
be in service shall comply with § 29-62-88 of the Regulations of
Connecticut State Agencies covering the storage, use and transportation
of flammable liquids as follows:

      (1)   Tanks rendered “temporarily out of service”.

         (a)   All flammable liquid that can be pumped out with the
service pump shall be removed;

         (b)   The fill line, gauge hatch and pump suction shall be
capped and secured against tampering; and

         (c)   The vent line shall be left open.

      (2)   Abandoning underground tanks in place.

         (a)   All flammable liquid shall be removed from the tank and
from all connecting lines;

         (b)   The suction, inlet gauge and vent lines shall be
disconnected;

         (c)   The tank shall be flooded with water;

         (d)   The tank and any remaining pipe stubs shall be filled
with an inert solid material; and

         (e)   All connecting lines below ground level shall be capped
or plugged.

      (3)   Removal of underground tanks.

         (a)   All flammable liquid shall be removed from the tank and
from connecting lines;

         (b)   The suction, inlet, gauge and vent lines shall be
disconnected;

         (c)   The tanks shall be flushed with water and rendered gas
free as indicated by combustible gas indicator;

         (d)   Inlets and outlets shall be capped or plugged and kept
capped or plugged during the transportation and storage of the tank; and

         (e)   A tank which is to be disposed of as junk shall be
retested for explosive vapors and rendered gas free. After the tank is
junked and before it is released to a junk dealer, a sufficient number
of holes or openings shall be made in it to render it unfit for further
use.

   (D)   New underground liquid storage tanks not designated flammable
but hazardous will be treated in the same manner as divisions (A), (B)
and (C) above.

   (E)   Conformation with division (D) above shall be performed within
60 days after notification of the Building Official.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 117

§ 95.29 APPEALS.

   Anyone who wishes to appeal directives of the Building Official where
such directive was based on his or her judgment requiring the
replacement of a system, must file a written request for a hearing with
the Board of Selectmen within ten days of receipt of the directive.
Failure to do so will be considered as an agreement to perform the
directed work.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 117

§ 95.30 PROVISIONS NOT APPLICABLE FOR A TANK CAPACITY OF NOT MORE THAN
1,000 GALLONS.

   The provisions of §§ 95.24, 95.25, 95.26 and 95.27 shall not apply to
any fuel oil storage tank with a capacity of not more than 1,000
gallons.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 117

§ 95.31 SEVERABILITY.

   Each section and every part of each section of this subchapter is
hereby declared independent of every other section or part hereof and
the finding or holding of any section or part hereto to be void or
ineffective for any cause shall not be deemed to affect any other
section or part thereof.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 117

§ 95.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 10.99.

   (B)   Any person violating § 95.05 shall be fined not more than $100.

   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any applicable
provision of §§ 95.20 through 95.31 or failing to comply with a lawful
order of the Building Official under §§ 95.20 through 95.31, upon
conviction, shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day a violation
occurs or continues. In addition, the Building Official may declare the
liquid storage system a public nuisance or an immediate hazard and order
immediate corrective action; upon failure to take such action
immediately, using town employees and equipment or through independent
contractors, and shall charge all the costs incurred to the person whose
property contains the nuisance or hazard, and to any person whose act or
omission was in violation of §§ 95.20 through 95.31, who shall be
jointly and severally liable.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 8-11-1981)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 115

   TM Volume 14, page 117

CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION

Section

Parks and Recreation Commission

   96.01   Duties and responsibilities

Areas Under Jurisdiction of Parks and Recreation Commission

   96.15   Regulations

 

   96.99   Penalty

PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION

§ 96.01 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.

   (A)   The responsibility for the management, control and development
of all recreational and park facilities and programs of the town, except
those under the exclusive control of the Board of Education, and for
expenditures made in connection therewith, is hereby vested in the Parks
and Recreation Commission.

   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Commission is authorized to enter into
agreements with the Board of Education for the use of facilities under
the exclusive control of the Board of Education.

   (C)   The Parks and Recreation Commission is authorized to set
reasonable fees for the use of such facilities and participation in such
programs.

   (D)   The Parks and Recreation Commission is authorized to hire such
employees as shall be necessary for the performance of its duties.

   (E)   All ordinances relating to the McCook Point Park Commission,
also known as the Town Park Commission and the Veterans Memorial Park
Committee, are hereby rescinded.

(Ord. passed 6-2-1966)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 9, page 226

AREAS UNDER JURISDICTION OF PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION

§ 96.15 REGULATIONS.

   (A)   This section shall apply to McCook Point Park and Beach,
Veterans Memorial Park, Boardwalk, Cini Park, Samuel Peretz areas and
all other areas within the town designated as under the control of the
Parks and Recreation Commission by vote of the Board of Selectmen.

   (B)   No person shall enter any area which is close to the public as
plainly designated by signs.

   (C)   No person shall kindle, build, maintain or use a fire except
either in fireplaces provided for that purpose, or in portable
fireplaces in areas plainly designated for that use.

   (D)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
alcoholic beverages in areas where it is prohibited as plainly
designated by signs.

   (E)   No person shall park any motor vehicle except in areas plainly
designated by sign or other marking as parking areas.

   (F)   No person shall discard or abandon any refuse, rubbish or
garbage except in containers provided for that purpose.

   (G)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
glass bottle or crockery in areas where it is prohibited as plainly
designated by sign.

   (H)   No person shall bring any dog (other than certified service
dogs) on to the Niantic Bay Boardwalk.

   (I)   No person shall bring any dog (other than certified service
dogs) onto any town-owned beach and McCook Point Park from Memorial Day
to Labor Day.

(Ord. effective 6-19-1971; Ord. passed 12-21-2005; Ord. passed
4-20-2017) Penalty, see § 95.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 10, page 369, Amended

§ 96.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 10.99.

   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of § 96.15 shall be
fined not more than $50.

(Ord. effective 6-19-1971; Ord. passed 12-21-2005; Ord. passed
4-20-2017)

CHAPTER 97: STREETS

Section

   97.01   Regulating excavations, cuts, fill and change of grade in
public highways

   97.02   Changes in grade, excavating, paving and filling

   97.03   Designation of scenic roads

 

   97.99   Penalty

§ 97.01 REGULATING EXCAVATIONS, CUTS, FILL AND CHANGE OF GRADE IN PUBLIC
HIGHWAYS.

   (A)   No person shall excavate in, fill, cut or change the grade of
or cause any excavation, fill, cut or change of grade to be made of any
highway or street maintained by the town without first having obtained a
permit so to do from the Selectmen of the town.

   (B)   No permit to excavate, fill, cut or change the grade of any
such highway or street shall be granted to any person until he or she
shall have filed with the Selectmen a surety bond in an amount equal to
the cost, as estimated by the Selectmen, of the restoration of any such
highway or street to as good a condition as it was before such
excavation, fill, cut or change of grade, with the same surface material
and that he or she will comply with the plan of the work to be done, as
filed with and approved by the Selectmen, and also that such person
shall have given the Selectmen satisfactory evidence of insurance
protecting both the town and the permittee against personal injuries and
property damage in an amount to be determined by the Selectmen depending
upon the location, amount of traffic, estimated length of time the work
will require, type of material to be excavated or cut and any other
conditions which might affect the risk involved.

   (C)   As used herein highway or street shall include any portion of
the entire width of the right-of-way, including the traveled portion,
the shoulders of any unimproved or undeveloped portion of the highway or
street.

   (D)   This section shall not apply to work being done by or on behalf
of the town.

(Ord. passed 1-28-1965) Penalty, see § 97.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 9, page 94

§ 97.02 CHANGES IN GRADE, EXCAVATING, PAVING AND FILLING.

   (A)   No person shall change the grade of any land, or excavate, pave
or fill any land in such a manner as to cause surface water to drain
from said land to the highway in such amounts or in such locations as to
interfere with public travel, damage the highway, collect on the highway
or drain from the highway on to land of any other person.

   (B)   No person shall change the grade of any land or excavate, pave
or fill any land in such a manner as to cause surface water to drain
from said land to the highway, without first obtaining a permit from the
First Selectman. No such permit shall be granted until and unless the
First Selectman shall determine that the work proposed will not violate
division (A) above.

   (C)   Applications for such permits shall be made in such manner and
form as shall be determined by the First Selectman. Where in his or her
opinion the interests of the town make it advisable, the First Selectman
may require an engineering plan and profile at the expense of the
applicant, and may require the posting of a surety bond in an amount
sufficient to protect the town.

   (D)   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by the action of the First
Selectman hereunder may appeal therefrom to the Board of Selectmen
within 30 days from the date of the action appealed from. The appeal
shall be made in such manner and form as shall be determined by the
Board of Selectmen, which shall, within 30 days from the date of the
appeal, hold a public hearing thereon, first giving such notice as it
shall consider sufficient to all interested parties. The Board of
Selectmen may approve, disapprove or modify the action appealed from or
take such other action as it shall consider appropriate to the purposes
of this section.

   (E)   The Board of Selectmen may, from time to time, set fees for
such permits.

(Ord. passed 5-2-1970) Penalty, see § 97.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 10, page 255

§ 97.03 DESIGNATION OF SCENIC ROADS.

   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-149a, as
amended, the Planning Commission of the town (the “Commission”) may
designate town highways or portions thereof as scenic roads. No state
highway or portion thereof and no private highway or portion thereof may
be designated as a scenic road under this section.

   (B)   No highway or portion of a highway may be designated as a
scenic road unless the owners of a majority of lot frontage abutting the
highway or portion of the highway agree to the designation by filing a
written statement of approval with the Town Clerk.

   (C)   Any owner of land located within the town may file an
application with the Commission requesting that a town highway or
portion thereof be designated as a scenic road. Alternatively, the
Commission by motion may initiate the procedures to designate a town
highway or portion thereof as a scenic road.

   (D)   Property owners seeking scenic road designation shall submit an
application to the Commission. The application shall contain the
following information:

      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;

      (2)   The name of the town highway and the total length (in feet)
of the portion to be designated as a scenic road;

      (3)   A brief description of the town highway and those
characteristics of the town highway or portion thereof which meet the
criteria specified in division (H) below; and

      (4)   The names, addresses and the amount of frontage (in feet) of
all owners of lots abutting the town highway or any portion thereof
proposed for designation as a scenic road.

   (E)   Simultaneously with the filing of an application for the
designation of a scenic road with the Commission, the applicant, or the
Commission if it initiates the procedures to designate a town highway as
a scenic road, shall file with the Town Clerk written statement(s) of
approval as required in division (B) above. The statements of approval
shall contain the name, mailing address, street address, total distance
of applicable lot frontage in feet and the signature of owner(s) of a
majority of the lot frontage abutting the portion of the town highway
proposed for such designation.

   (F)   Upon receipt of the written statement(s) of approval the Town
Clerk shall forward certified copies thereof to the Assessor. The
Assessor shall ascertain the ownership and the total lot frontage of the
owners signing the statement(s), and shall determine whether said total
lot frontage constitutes a majority of lot frontage abutting the highway
or portion of the highway to be designated as a scenic road. The
Assessor shall report such findings to the Commission within 14 days
from the date that the Assessor receives the statement(s) from the Town
Clerk.

   (G)   (1)   Upon receipt of a report from the Assessor that the
owners of a majority of the lot frontage abutting the highway or portion
of the highway to be designated as a scenic road have signed statements
of approval as required by division (B) above, the Commission shall
conduct a public hearing to consider an application for a designation of
a scenic road. The public hearing shall commence within 65 days after
the Commission’s receipt of the Assessor’s report, and shall be
completed within 35 days after it commences. The Commission shall render
a decision within 65 days after the completion of such public hearing.
The applicant, or the Commission if it initiates the scenic road
designation procedures, may consent to one or more extensions of any
period specified in this section, provided the total extension of all
such periods shall not be for longer than 65 days, or may withdraw such
application.

      (2)   The Commission shall prepare a notice of the public hearing,
post a copy of the notice in the office of the Town Clerk for public
viewing and shall publish the notice in a newspaper having a general
circulation in the town at least twice, at intervals of not less than
two days, the first not more than 15 days or less than ten days and the
last not less than two days before the date set for the hearing. The
applicant, or the Commission when it initiates the scenic road
designation procedure, shall mail copies of the notice by way of a
certificate of mailing to the owners of all of the property having
frontage abutting the portion of the town highway proposed for
designation as a scenic road. Such mailing shall be made no later than
ten days before the date of the hearing inclusive of the date of mailing
but not the date of the hearing. The applicant, or the Commission if it
initiates the scenic road designation procedure, shall submit proof of
such mailing to the Commission at or before the commencement of the
public hearing.

   (H)   (1)   The Commission may approve the application as submitted
or may designate a lesser portion of the highway as a scenic road,
provided that prior to designating a town highway or any portion of a
highway as a scenic road, the Commission shall first find that the
owners of a majority of the lot frontage abutting the highway or portion
of the highway to be designated as a scenic road have signed statements
of approval as required by division (B) above. The Commission shall also
find the highway or proposed portion thereof is free of intensive
commercial development and free of intensive vehicular traffic. In
addition, the Commission must find that the town highway or portion
thereof meets at least one of the following criteria:

         (a)   It offers scenic views;

         (b)   It is bordered by mature trees or stone walls;

         (c)   It blends naturally into the surrounding terrain;

         (d)   It parallels or crosses over brooks, streams, lakes or
ponds;

         (e)   The traveled portion is no more than 20 feet in width;
and

         (f)   It is unpaved.

      (2)   If the Commission approves the designation of a scenic road
or a lesser portion thereof, it shall state the scenic characteristics
for which the Commission determines protection is warranted.

      (3)   If the Commission fails to act on the application within the
time frames set forth in this section, the application shall be deemed
to be denied in its entirety.

   (I)   The Commission shall publish a notice of its decision
designating a scenic road in a newspaper having a general circulation
within the town within 15 days after the date of the decision. The
notice shall specify the highway or portion thereof, which the
Commission designates as a scenic road. If the Commission approves the
application, it shall notify the First Selectman, the Zoning Commission,
the Town Highway Superintendent, Director of Public Works and the Town
Tree Warden of the designation within 15 days after the date of the
decision, specifying the scenic characteristics for which the Commission
determines protection is warranted. The town shall create and maintain a
map that depicts the name, location and distance (in feet) of any town
highway designated as a scenic road. Any failure to provide such notice
to such town officials or to create or maintain such map shall not
affect the validity of the designation.

   (J)   Any person aggrieved by a designation of a town highway or
portion thereof as a scenic road pursuant to this section, may appeal
such designation in the same manner and utilizing the same standards of
review provided for appeals from the decisions of the Commission under
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-8.

   (K)   (1)   A scenic road designation shall not affect the town’s
obligation to maintain and repair such road by such methods and in such
a manner as may be necessary to keep the road in a safe and passable
condition at all times. Such work shall as nearly as practicable
preserve the scenic characteristics of the highway for which the
Commission determines protection is warranted. Such work may be
performed by or on behalf of the town without prior approval of the
Commission.

      (2)   Any tree trimming, excavating or maintenance work performed
in a designated scenic road by or on behalf of public service companies,
as more particularly described in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 16-229, 16-234 and
16-235, may be performed without prior approval of the Commission.

   (L)   (1)   No road which has been designated as a scenic road shall
be altered or improved, including, but not limited to, widening of the
right-of-way or the travel portion of the road, changes of grade or
roadway surface treatment, removal of stone bridges, straightening,
removal of stone walls, or removal of mature trees, except for good
cause determined by the Commission. The Commission may hold a public
hearing on any such proposed alterations or improvements if it deems
that the public interest might be best served by doing so.

      (2)   This division (L) is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the
requirements for such work as more particularly set forth in the
following ordinances:

         (a)   “Ordinance Regulating Excavations, Cuts, Fill and Change
of Grade in Public Highways”, adopted January 28, 1965, as codified in §
97.01 of this code of ordinances;

         (b)   “Ordinance Concerning Change in Grade, Excavating, Paving
and Filling”, adopted May 2, 1970, as codified in § 97.02 of this code
of ordinances; and

         (c)   “Ordinance Concerning Damage to Highways”, adopted
September 21, 1975, as codified in § 150.070 of this code of ordinances.

   (M)   A scenic road designation may be rescinded by the Commission,
using the same procedures provided herein for designation of a scenic
road and having written concurrence of the owners of a majority of lot
frontage abutting the highway or portion of the highway.

(Ord. passed 5-30-2009; Ord. effective 7-1-2011)

§ 97.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 10.99.

   (B)   Any person who violates § 97.01 may be fined not more than $100
a day for each day that a violation shall exist.

   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of § 97.02 shall be fined
not more than $100 for each day that the violation shall continue.

(Ord. passed 1-28-1965; Ord. passed 5-2-1970)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 9, page 94; TM Volume 10, page 255

CHAPTER 98: ANIMALS

Section

   98.01   Removal of animal feces from town property

 

   98.99   Penalty

§ 98.01 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL FECES FROM TOWN PROPERTY.

   (A)   Any person, whose dog or other domesticated animal defecates on
town-owned property or a public highway within the town, shall dispose
of the animal feces left by that animal in a proper receptacle.

   (B)   Any person who walks or otherwise brings a dog or other
domesticated animal onto town-owned property or onto a public highway
within the town, must be prepared to dispose of said animal’s feces by
whatever means necessary, which may include carrying plastic bags, a
pooper scooper or other necessary tools to remove said waste.

   (C)   The provision of this section shall not apply to a guide dog
accompanying any blind person.

(Ord. effective 10-5-1995) Penalty, see § 98.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 99

§ 98.99 PENALTY.

   Anyone who shall violate § 98.01 shall be fined the sum of not more
than $50 for each violation.

(Ord. effective 10-5-1995)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 21, page 99

TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS

   Chapter

      110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS

      111.   SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR

      112.   PEDDLING

      113.   SOLICITATION OF CHARITABLE FUNDS

      114.   BAZAARS AND RAFFLES

CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section

Notice of Intent to Establish a Trade,
Manufacture, Business or Profession

   110.01   Introduction

   110.02   Notification

   110.03   Information required

   110.04   Town action

 

   110.99   Penalty

NOTICE OF INTENT TO ESTABLISH A TRADE, MANUFACTURE, BUSINESS
OR PROFESSION

§ 110.01 INTRODUCTION.

   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-194 and 7-148(c)(7)(H)(ii), and in
order to facilitate the town’s ability to regulate and prohibit the
carrying on within the municipality of any trade, manufacture, business
or profession which is or may be so carried on as to prejudice the
public health, or lead to fraud or cheating, or be dangerous to or
constitute an unreasonable annoyance to, those living or owning property
in the town, and in order to furnish notice to the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, Fire Marshal, Tax Assessor and Director of Health of the
establishment of new businesses, this chapter is hereby enacted.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1986)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 15, page 380

§ 110.02 NOTIFICATION.

   Every person intending to establish any trade, manufacture, business
or profession within the town must notify the Zoning Enforcement Officer
of such intent not less then ten calendar days prior to commencing
operations. Such notification will not be considered given unless and
until it is received by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1986) Penalty, see § 110.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 15, page 380

§ 110.03 INFORMATION REQUIRED.

   The notice of intent shall identify the owner of the business, the
location of the business premises by street address, the nature of the
business, the anticipated hours of its operation and such other
information as may be appropriate to carry out the purpose of this
chapter. The Zoning Enforcement Officer may provide a form for such
notice.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1986)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 15, page 380

§ 110.04 TOWN ACTION.

   (A)   Upon receipt of the required notice, the Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall give notice of such information to the Fire Marshal, Tax
Assessor, Director of Health and, if requested, to any other town
official.

   (B)   This chapter shall not be construed to confer upon the Zoning
Enforcement Officer any authority or discretion to deny any person the
right to conduct any business, trade, profession or manufacturing
operation within the town which is otherwise lawful under federal, state
and local law.

   (C)   The giving of a notice of intent pursuant to this chapter is
for the purpose of notification only and no action or failure to act
with respect to the receipt of such notice by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall be deemed to authorize the establishment or operation of
any such business, trade, profession or manufacturing operation within
the town in violation of any federal, state or local statute,
regulation, ordinance or other law.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1986)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 15, page 380

§ 110.99 PENALTY.

   Failure to give the required notice within the time period stated in
§ 110.02 shall result in a fine of not more than $99.

(Ord. passed 8-11-1986)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 15, page 380

CHAPTER 111: SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR

Section

Sale of Alcoholic Liquor

   111.01   Sale of alcoholic liquor

SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR

§ 111.01 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.

   The sale of alcoholic liquor is allowed on Sunday in the town as
permitted by the General Statutes of the state in all places operated
under hotel, restaurant and club permits as issued by the Liquor Control
Commission of the state.

(Ord. passed 12-12-1938)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 5, page 244

CHAPTER 112: PEDDLING

Section

   112.01   Definitions

   112.02   Limitations

   112.03   License

   112.04   License fees

   112.05   Application

   112.06   Processing

   112.07   Use of streets

 

   112.99   Penalty

§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   PEDDLING. Includes traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle or
any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house
or from street to street, carrying, conveying or transporting goods,
wares, merchandise, books, magazines, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits,
garden truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the
same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or
without traveling from place to place, selling or offering the same for
sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car or other vehicle or
conveyance on public or private property; and further provided that
soliciting orders and as a separate transaction making deliveries to
purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed PEDDLING subject to the provisions of this
chapter. The word PEDDLING shall include the words “hawk” and “vend.”
However, the word PEDDLING shall not include solicitation of funds by
any charitable organization as defined in the ordinance entitled
“Ordinance Concerning Solicitation of Charitable Funds” (as codified in
Chapter 113 of this code of ordinances).

   PERSON. Includes the singular and the plural and shall also mean and
include any person, firm or corporation, association, club,
co-partnership or society, or any other organization.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 269

§ 112.02 LIMITATIONS.

   No person shall peddle within the limits of the following highways or
at any house or other building having frontage on such highway:

   (A)   The portion of Main Street from the Niantic River Bridge to
Black Point Road; and

   (B)   The portion of Pennsylvania Avenue from Main Street to Roxbury
Road.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
Penalty, see § 112.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 269

§ 112.03 LICENSE.

   With respect to all other highways, no person except as otherwise
authorized by law, shall peddle upon any of the public highways of the
town, or from house to house within the town, unless he or she shall
have obtained a license pursuant to § 112.04.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
Penalty, see § 112.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 269

§ 112.04 LICENSE FEES.

   The Chief of Police of the town is authorized to issue licenses to
peddle, upon the payment of the following license fees:

   (A)   For each foot peddler, $10 per day;

   (B)   For each organization of or company employing peddlers, at the
option of such organization or company in lieu of the license fee
established by division (A) above, $40 per week; and

   (C)   For each peddler, using a team or vehicle, $45 per year.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 269

§ 112.05 APPLICATION.

   Prior to the issue of any license, the applicant shall file a sworn
written application in duplicate with the Chief of Police which must
contain or be accompanied by the following data:

   (A)   Name and description of applicant, with permanent home address
and local address, if any;

   (B)   A description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold;

   (C)   If employed, name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;

   (D)   The length of time for which the right to do solicitation is
desired, not to exceed, in any event, a period of 12 months;

   (E)   The proposed method of contacting homeowners prior to
initiating solicitation;

   (F)   The place from which ordered goods are to be delivered;

   (G)   The proposed method of delivery;

   (H)   A copy of any and all brochures, order and/or contract forms,
or other material to be used in connection with the solicitation;

   (I)   A two-inch square photograph of the applicant taken within 60
days;

   (J)   The names of at least two property owners of the town who will
certify to the applicant's good character and business responsibility or
in lieu of the names of references, such other evidence as to the good
characters and business responsibility of the applicant, as will enable
verification of such character and business responsibility;

   (K)   The towns or locations, within or without the state, if any,
where the applicant has conducted such solicitation prior to coming to
the town;

   (L)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been
convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal
ordinance, the nature of the offense, and the penalty assessed
therefore; and

   (M)   An agreement to comply with the provisions of this chapter.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 269

§ 112.06 PROCESSING.

   (A)   Upon receipt by the Chief of Police of the original
application, he or she will have ten days within which to determine
whether any reason exists for denial of the requested license. In making
such evaluation, the determination of qualification shall be governed by
the following standards (as applied to the applicant's principal or
employer, or, if there be more than one applicant, members of that
group):

      (1)   Veracity of statements in the application;

      (2)   Financial solvency; compliance with disclosure and
rescission laws;

      (3)   Prior claims or fraudulent practices, misrepresentations,
trespass, breach of the peace or other unlawful conduct, or intimidating
tactics, in the course of making home solicitations; or

      (4)   Any similar information which indicates that the applicant
lacks the moral or business character to be permitted to conduct home
solicitations.

   (B)   Upon conclusion of the evaluation, the applicant shall be
endorsed for approval or denial.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 269

§ 112.07 USE OF STREETS.

   No peddler shall have any exclusive right to any location in the
public streets, nor shall any be permitted a stationary location, nor
shall any be permitted to operate in any congested area where peddling
might impede or inconvenience the public. For the purpose of this
chapter, the judgment of a police officer, exercised in good faith,
shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested or the
public impeded or inconvenienced.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)
Penalty, see § 112.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 269

§ 112.99 PENALTY.

   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not more than $100 and each day of a continuing violation shall be
deemed a separate violation.

(Ord. passed 9-23-1983; Ord. passed 7-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-21-2024)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 269

CHAPTER 113: SOLICITATION OF CHARITABLE FUNDS

Section

   113.01   Definitions

   113.02   Permit required

   113.03   Permit issuance

 

   113.99   Penalty

§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   ACT. The Solicitation of Charitable Funds Act (Conn. Gen. Stat.
Chapter 299a, Revision of 1958, as amended from time to time).

   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. Any benevolent, educational, philanthropic,
humane, patriotic or eleemosynary person or one holding itself out to be
a charitable organization or one which has received a tax exemption from
the United States government or any state or municipality by reason of
its charitable nature or any person, other than a professional
fund-raising counsel or professional solicitor, who solicits or obtains
contributions solicited from the public for charitable purposes.

(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 223

§ 113.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.

   No charitable organization and no religious organization shall
solicit contributions within the town, or have funds solicited on its
behalf, unless prior to any solicitation, it obtains a permit from the
First Selectman.

(Ord. passed 4-6-1976) Penalty, see § 113.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 223

§ 113.03 PERMIT ISSUANCE.

   Any applying charitable organization which is exempt from
registration requirements under the Act, and any charitable organization
which has filed a current registration statement and is in good standing
with the State Department of Consumer Protection shall, after
verification of its status, be issued a permit for a period not to
exceed one year. Any person applying for a religious organization shall,
after establishing his or her identity and his or her authority to act
for such religious organization, be issued a permit for a period not to
exceed one year.

(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 223

§ 113.99 PENALTY.

   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not more than $100 for each such offense. Any violation of the
provisions of this chapter or of the Act shall be grounds for suspension
or revocation of a permit.

(Ord. passed 4-6-1976)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 12, page 223

CHAPTER 114: BAZAARS AND RAFFLES

Section

   114.01   Adoption of state law

§ 114.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.

   The provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-170 to 7-186, inclusive, as
amended, providing for the operation of bazaars and raffles in the town,
are adopted.

(Ord. passed - -)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 11, pages 231 233

TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES

   Chapter

      130.   GENERAL OFFENSES

CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES

Section

   130.01   Bathing and dressing

 

   130.99   Penalty

§ 130.01 BATHING AND DRESSING.

   (A)   No person shall bathe in any public place or be upon any
bathing beach or upon any highway in the town without being properly
clothed.

   (B)   No person shall dress or undress on any highway or in any
public place or in an automobile in any public place or on any private
property without the owner’s permission.

   (C)   No person shall sleep in any motor vehicle or use such vehicle
for sleeping quarters when said vehicle is on any highway or in any
public parking place in said town.

   (D)   No person shall sleep or make one’s bed on any public ground,
beach, park or highway within said town.

(Ord. passed 8-4-1947) Penalty, see § 130.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 6, page 103

§ 130.99 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 10.99.

   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of § 130.01
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $25.

(Ord. passed 8-4-1947)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 6, page 103

TITLE XV: LAND USAGE

   Chapter

      150.   BUILDING

      151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION

      152.   HARBOR MANAGEMENT

      153.   INLAND WETLANDS AND WATERCOURSES

      154.   HISTORIC PROPERTIES

      155.   PLANNING COMMISSION, ZONING COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF
APPEALS

CHAPTER 150: BUILDING

Section

General Provisions

   150.001   Penalties for violation of the State Building Code and
orders issued thereunder

   150.002   Exempting certain municipal property from zoning
regulations

   150.003   Adopting the provisions of the Municipal Planning Act

   150.004   Adopting the Zoning Enabling Act

   150.005   Demolition delay

Fees

   150.015   Fees for building and demolition permits

   150.016   Fees for Fire Marshal permits and inspections

Blight

   150.030   Purpose

   150.031   Definitions

   150.032   Exemptions

   150.033   Prohibition

   150.034   Special consideration

   150.035   Notice of blight violation

   150.036   Enforcement citation

   150.037   Recording of lien

   150.038   Municipal performance to correct; costs

   150.039   Exceptions and pending approvals

   150.040   Conflict and separability

Posting and Displaying Numbers on Buildings

   150.055   Posting and displaying numbers on buildings

Damage to Highways

   150.070   Damage to highways

 

   150.999   Penalty

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 150.001 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF THE STATE BUILDING CODE AND ORDERS
ISSUED THEREUNDER.

   (A)   Any person who shall violate a provision of the State Building
Code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
shall erect, construct, alter or repair a building or structure in
violation of any approved plan or directive of the building official, or
of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of the Code shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $500
or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or both such fine and
imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.

   (B)   Any person who shall continue any work in or about the building
after having been served with a stop order, except such work as he or
she is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe conditions,
shall be liable to a fine of not less than $25 or more than $500. Each
day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.

(Ord. effective 4-15-1972)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 11, page 91

§ 150.002 EXEMPTING CERTAIN MUNICIPAL PROPERTY FROM ZONING REGULATIONS.

   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-2, Revision of 1958 as amended,
property of the town now or hereafter used for the town water system or
the town sewer system is exempt from regulation by the town zoning
regulations. This exemption shall not be applicable to any building to
be constructed for purposes of administrative offices, garage or
maintenance facility for either system.

(Ord. passed 4-21-1991)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 18, page 108

§ 150.003 ADOPTING THE PROVISIONS OF THE MUNICIPAL PLANNING ACT.

   Adopting the provisions of the Municipal Planning Act or Commission
as is set out by Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 45, §§ 853 through 862
inclusive, Revision of 1949.

(Res. passed 6-7-1951)

§ 150.004 ADOPTING THE ZONING ENABLING ACT.

   Adopting the provisions of the Zoning Enabling Act entitled “Public
Act No. 418 enacted by the General Assembly”, which act becomes
effective October 1, 1947.

(Res. passed 10-6-1947)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 6, page 113

§ 150.005 DEMOLITION DELAY.

   (A)   Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 29-406, there shall be a 90-day
waiting period before a permit to demolish any structure located in the
town may be issued. The 90-day waiting period shall commence upon the
filing of a demolition permit application with the Building Department.

   (B)   The applicant for a demolition permit must install, within
seven business days of submitting the application, a sign provided by
the building department, upon submission of a $200 deposit, on the front
wall of the structure, or such other location as directed by the
Building Official. The sign must remain in place until such time that
the waiting period has expired.

   (C)   Within seven days of the filing of the application, the
Building Official shall determine if the structure proposed for
demolition is included in the historic property inventory, as it may be
amended from time to time. If the structure is included in the
inventory, the Building Official shall notify the Historic Properties
Commission in writing within seven business days of such determination.
If the structure is not included in the inventory, the Building Official
may issue the permit forthwith.

   (D)   Upon notification as set forth above, the Commission shall
review the application at its next scheduled meeting. The Commission may
waive the balance of the waiting period or may determine that the
waiting period must remain in effect. The Commission shall provide
notice of its decision to the applicant and the Building Official in
writing within seven business days of said decision.

(Ord. passed 6-6-2018)

FEES

§ 150.015 FEES FOR BUILDING AND DEMOLITION PERMITS.

   (A)   Residential building. Based on the following valuation formula
(does not include plumbing, heating, and electrical work for new homes,
accessory buildings, alterations, additions, renovations and swimming
pools):

  -------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------
  Unfinished accessory buildings (under 600 square feet)   $25 per square foot of building area
  Unfinished accessory buildings (over 600 square feet)    $55 per square foot
  In-ground pools                                          $15 per square foot
  Above-ground pools                                       $50 per square foot
  Finish existing basement with bathroom                   $40 per square foot of building area
  Finish existing basement without bathroom                $50 per square foot of building area
  Siding and roofing                                       $500 per square foot
  Decks                                                    $55 per square foot
  Covered porches/decks                                    $65 per square foot
  Interior alterations or renovations                      $55 per square foot of building area
  New homes                                                $150 per square foot of building area
                                                           
  -------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------

 

   (B)   Commercial building. Based on the following valuation formulas:

 

  ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Renovations in existing buildings   $55 per square foot of building area
  New commercial buildings            As per current International Code Council fee schedule or contact amount (this does not include sprinklers, commercial kitchen hoods, electrical wiring, alarm systems, plumbing and/or mechanical equipment includes but not limited to propane tanks or gas unit heaters)
  ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

   (C)   Building permit fee rule summary.

      (1)   Fifteen per thousand or portion thereof, in value, with a
minimum fee of $30 for the first thousand. As of July 1, 2010, $0.26 per
thousand for State Education Fee. Permit fee includes Certificate of
Approval.

      (2)   Certificate of Occupancy, residential: $50.

      (3)   Certificate of Occupancy, commercial: $100.

      (4)   Plan review fee, commercial projects over $500,000 in
construction cost based on the current ICC fee schedule.

      (5)   In the event of permit expiration of cancellation, applicant
may request in writing an 80% refund of the building permit fee.
Twenty-percent plan review fee is nonrefundable.

      (6)   Demolition permit fee is $100.

      (7)   Refundable deposit for demolition sign: $300.

      (8)   A re-inspection fee of $50 will be charged to the property
owner or contractor for any of the following conditions:

         (a)   Failure to comply with building code requirements that
were cited during a previous inspection;

         (b)   If the work to be re-inspected is not ready for
inspection upon arrival of the building inspector or assistant building
inspector;

         (c)   If no one is present to meet the inspector and prior
arrangements have not been made. The inspector at his or her discretion
may waive the fee if an emergency situation is demonstrated; and/or

         (d)   If the scope of work has changed and prior approval was
not obtained from the building official. The fee must be paid prior to
scheduling another inspection.

(Ord. passed 11-26-1990; Ord. passed 3-30-1995; Ord. passed 6-15-2001;
Ord. passed 5-15-2008; Ord. passed 5-18-2015; Ord. effective 1-30-2016;
Ord. passed 2-21-2018; Ord. passed 4-19-2023; Ord. passed 3-19-2025)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 17, page 370, Amended; TM Volume 21, page 9; TM Volume 22,
page 787, Amended; TM Volume 23, page 233; TM Volume 23, page 508,
Amended

§ 150.016 FEES FOR FIRE MARSHAL PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.

   (A)   Permits.

      (1)   No building or structure subject to the Connecticut State
Fire Safety Code and/or State Fire Prevention Code shall be constructed,
used, occupied, enlarged, altered or repaired unless a permit has been
granted for said activity by the Fire Marshal.

      (2)   No person shall undertake any of the operations or
activities described in division (B)(3) until such person shall have
obtained a permit from the Fire Marshal. Said permit shall be valid for
12 months from the date of issue. No continuation, expansion, diminution
or modification of said operations shall be undertaken without obtaining
a permit from the Fire Marshal.

      (3)   No person shall install, enlarge, alter, remove, repair or
replace any fire protection system in any building or structure subject
to the Connecticut State Fire Safety Code and/or State Fire Prevention
Code, until such person shall have obtained a permit from the Fire
Marshal.

      (4)   The permit(s) required pursuant to this section shall be
required in addition to any other permits or licenses required by
federal, state or local law.

   (B)   Schedule of fees.

      (1)   The fee for plan reviews for new construction, renovations,
additions or modernization of buildings or structures shall be at the
following rates. For purposes of this section, "fast track" is an
expedited plan review which will be conducted in one week or less,
subject to staff availability.

         (a)   Fire plan review (not including R-3 occupancies). 65% of
the building permit fee or 100% for fast track review.

         (b)   Mechanical plan review (fire protection systems). 100% of
the building permit fee or 135% for fast track review.

         (c)   Electrical plan review. 35% of the building permit fee or
70% for fast track review.

      (2)   The fee for field inspections, approval and acceptance of
new construction, renovations, additions or modernization of multifamily
residential (not including R-3 occupancies) and commercial buildings or
structures associated with the issuance of a certificate of occupancy
shall be at the following rates:

  ---------------------------------------------------------------- -------------
  Estimated Construction Cost (From Building Permit Application)   Fee Formula
  ---------------------------------------------------------------- -------------

  ---------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Estimated Construction Cost (From Building Permit Application)   Fee Formula
  $1 to $500                                                       $10.41
  $501 to $2,000                                                   $10.41 for the first $500 plus $0.26 for each additional $100 or fraction thereof up to and including $2,000
  $2,001 to $25,000                                                $14.31 for the first $2,000 plus $1.04 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof up to and including $25,000
  $25,001 to $50,000                                               $38.25 for the first $25,000 plus $0.78 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof up to and including $50,000
  $50,001 to $100,000                                              $57.77 for the first $50,000 plus $0.52 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof up to and including $100,000
  $100,001 to $500,000                                             $83.80 for the first $100,000 plus $0.46 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof up to and including $500,000
  $500,001 to $1,000,000                                           $271.18 for the first $500,000 plus $0.42 for each additional $1,000
  $1,000,001 and up                                                $479.38 for the first $1,000,000 plus $0.26 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
  Manufactured structures setup fee                                $10.41 per section, with a minimum fee of $20.82 per permit
                                                                   
  ---------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

      (3)   Any person engaged in any of the following operations and/or
occupancies shall obtain periodic inspection thereof according to the
schedule set forth in C.G.S. § 29-305 as that section may be amended or
recodified from time to time. Single-use inspections shall be valid only
for a one-time event at a single venue. Multi-use inspections shall be
valid for 12 months from date of issue and shall apply to multiple
venues if the inspected configuration or process does not change. All
inspections include both fire permit and fire inspection. The fee(s) for
the annual permit required pursuant to division (A)(2), including such
inspection(s), shall be as follows:

Operation Permit Fee Table

Operations and Materials

Permit Required

Permit Fee

Operation Permit Fee Table

Operations and Materials

Permit Required

Permit Fee

Aircraft hangars

For servicing or repairing aircraft

$100 per year

Airport terminal buildings

For operation

$100 per year

Ambulatory health care occupancy

To operate an ambulatory health care occupancy

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Ammonium nitrate

For storage

$250 per year

Apartment buildings and dormitories

To operate an apartment building or dormitory

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Automobile wrecking yards

To operate automobile wrecking yards

$100 per year

Battery system

To operate stationary lead-acid battery systems having an electrolyte
capacity of more than 100 gallon (379 liters) in sprinklered buildings
or 50 gallon (189 liters) in nonsprinklered buildings

$75 per year

Business occupancies

To operate a business occupancy

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Candles, open flames, and portable cooking

To use in connection with assembly areas, dining areas of restaurants,
or drinking establishments

$30, single use; $60, multi-use

Cellulose nitrate film

For storage, handling, or use

$100 per year

Cleanrooms

For operation

$150 per year

Combustible material storage

To store more than 2,500 ft3 (70.8 m3) gross volume

$250 per year

Commercial rubbish-handling operation

To operate

$150 per year

Consumer fireworks (1.4G)

For the sale, on-site handling, manufacture, and storage of consumer
fireworks (1.4G)

$150 per year

Covered mall buildings

Annual requirement for facilities that utilize mall area for exhibits or
displays with four conditions

$250 per year

Cutting and welding operation

For operations within a jurisdiction

$30, single use; $60, multi-use

Day-care occupancies

To operate a day-care occupancy

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Dry-cleaning plants

To engage in business of dry cleaning or to change to a more hazardous
cleaning solvent

$180 per year

Dust-producing operations

To operate a grain elevator, flour mill, starch mill, feed mill, or
plant pulverizing aluminum, coal, cocoa, magnesium, spices, or sugar,
etc.

$250 per year

Educational occupancy

To operate an educational occupancy

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Exhibit and trade shows

For operation of all exhibits and trade shows held within a jurisdiction

$250 per event

Fairs, no rides

To conduct the events

$50 per event

Flame effects

Use of flame effects before an audience

$180 per event

Health care facility

To operate a health care occupancy

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

High-piled combustible storage

To use any building or portion thereof as a high-piled storage area
exceeding 500 ft2 (46.45 m2)

$250 per year

Hot work operations

For hot work; for additional permit requirements for hot work
operations, see 41.1.5 Editor s note: See Uniform Fire Code

$30, single use; $60, multi-use

Hotels and bed-and-breakfast establishment

To operate a hotel, motel or bed and breakfast establishment

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Industrial occupancies

To operate an industrial occupancy

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Industrial ovens and furnaces

For operation of industrial ovens and furnaces covered by Chapter 51
Editor s Note: See Uniform Fire Code

$100 per year

Lumberyards and woodworking plants

For storage of lumber exceeding 100,000 board feet

$250 per year

Membrane structures, tents, and canopies-permanent

For construction, location, erection, or placement

$100 per structure

Membrane structures, tents, and canopies - temporary

To operate an air-supported temporary membrane structure or tent having
an area in excess of 200 ft2 (18.6 m2) or a canopy in excess of 400 ft2
(37.2 m2)

Exception: temporary membrane structures, tents, or canopy structures
used exclusively for camping

$50, single use;

$100, multi-use

Mercantile occupancies

To operate a mercantile occupancy

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Organic coatings

For operation and maintenance of a facility that manufactures organic
coatings

$150 per year

Places of assembly, including special amusement buildings

To operate a place of assembly

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Propane filing station

Where cylinder refilling takes place

$50 per year

Propane tank installation

Inspection of all propane installation, residential and commercial

$20 for permit

Propane tank use at events

Tanks used at events or fairs

$20 per tank

Pyrotechnics before a proximate audience

For the display and use of pyrotechnic materials before a proximate
audience

$150 per event

Refrigeration equipment

To operate a mechanical refrigeration unit or system

$50 per year

Repair garages and service stations

For operation of service stations and repair garages

$50 per year

Residential board and care occupancies

To operate a residential board and care occupancy

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Rocketry manufacturing

For the manufacturing of model rocket motors

$250 per year

Rooftop heliports

For operation of a rooftop heliport

$250 per year

Special outdoor events, carnivals, and fairs

For the location and operation of special outdoor events, carnivals, and
fairs

$60 per event

Special structures and high-rise buildings

To operate special structures and high-rise buildings

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Storage occupancies

To operate a storage occupancy

See Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Tar kettles

For placement of a tar kettle, placement shall be obtained prior to the
placement of a tar kettle

$30, single use;

$60, multi-use

Tire-rebuilding plants

For operation and maintenance of a tire- rebuilding plant

$150 per year

Tire storage

To use an open area or portion thereof to store tires in excess of 1,000
ft3 (28.3 m3)

$150 per year

Torch-applied roofing operation

For the use of a torch for application of roofing materials

$30, single use;

$60, multi-use

Wildland fire-prone areas

For use of hazardous areas within fire-prone areas

$x per year

Wood products

To store chips, hogged material, lumber, or plywood in excess of 200 ft3
(5.7 m3)

$150 per year

 

Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Occupancy Group 1 Annual Renewal
A, E, H-1, I-1 and R
(Not including R-3 occupancies)

Occupancy Group 2 Biannual Renewal H-2, I- 3, I-4, B-Medical and
B-College

Occupancy Group 3 Triennial Renewal B, H-3, M, S-1

Occupancy Group 4 Quadrennial Renewal F-1, F- 2, H-4, H-5, S-2 and U

Occupancy Permit Fee Table

Occupancy Group 1 Annual Renewal
A, E, H-1, I-1 and R
(Not including R-3 occupancies)

Occupancy Group 2 Biannual Renewal H-2, I- 3, I-4, B-Medical and
B-College

Occupancy Group 3 Triennial Renewal B, H-3, M, S-1

Occupancy Group 4 Quadrennial Renewal F-1, F- 2, H-4, H-5, S-2 and U

0 to 3,000 square feet

$60

$60

$60

$60

3,001 to 5,000 square feet

$95

$95

$95

$95

5,001 to 7,500 square feet

$125

$125

$125

$125

7,501 to 10,000 square feet

$135

$135

$135

$135

10,001 to 12,500 square feet

$150

$150

$150

$150

12,501 to 15,000 square feet

$170

$170

$170

$170

15,001 to 17,500 square feet

$180

$180

$180

$180

17,501 to 20,000 square feet

$190

$190

$190

$190

20,001 to 30,000 square feet

$205

$205

$205

$205

30,001 to 40,000 square feet

$230

$230

$230

$230

40,001 to 50,000 square feet

$245

$245

$245

$245

50,001 to 60,000 square feet

$260

$260

$260

$260

60,001 to 70,000 square feet

$275

$275

$275

$275

70,001 to 100,000 square feet

$285

$285

$285

$285

100,001 to 150,000 square feet

$305

$305

$305

$305

150,001 to 200,000 square feet

$340

$340

$340

$340

 

      (4)   All permit fees established pursuant to this section are due
when an application is submitted to the Fire Marshal.

   (C)   Penalties for offenses.

      (1)   Any person who commences any work which is subject to the
permit requirements of division (A)(1) or (2) without first obtaining a
permit shall be required to pay a penalty of $500 in addition to the
permit fee otherwise applicable. No such penalty shall be imposed upon a
person who commences emergency repair work without a permit, provided
that a permit is sought promptly thereafter.

      (2)   Any person who conducts any operation which is subject to
the permit requirements of division (A)(2) without first obtaining a
permit shall be required to pay a penalty equal to the amount of the
permit fee otherwise applicable. Said penalty shall be payable in
addition to the required permit fee. No such penalty shall be imposed
upon a person who commences emergency repair work without a permit
provided that a permit is sought promptly thereafter.

   (D)   Penalties for nonpayment. Failure to pay fees as prescribed in
this chapter may result in an injunction to cease and desist and a
penalty of interest on delinquent bills will be charged at the rate of
1½% per month from the due date (18% per annum). For purposes of this
section the "due date" shall be 15 days from the date the Fire Marshal
issues a bill. No additional permits will be issued regarding any
property until the fees are paid in full. Emergency work will be
considered if it poses a threat to life safety. The Fire Marshal may
choose to write infractions for operating without a town permit in
accordance with the Fire Prevention Code.

   (E)   Agencies exempt from fees; exception. Agencies of the Town of
East Lyme and the East Lyme Board of Education shall be required to
obtain all permits and/or inspections required pursuant to this section
but all fees associated therewith shall be waived. The First Selectman
may waive any permit fee, in whole or in part, for any work to be done
by or for a non-profit organization, when the First Selectman deems it
in the public interest to do so.

(Ord. passed 4-19-2023)

BLIGHT

§ 150.030 PURPOSE.

   (A)   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to authority granted by the
Connecticut General Statutes, including, without limitation, Conn. Gen.
Stat. § 7-148(c)(7)(H)(xv), as amended by Public Act 12-146, §§ 2 and 4;
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 148-o(b) and Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152c.

   (B)   This subchapter prohibits any owner, occupant, agent, tenant
and/or person in control of real property located in the town, from
allowing, creating, maintaining or causing to be created or maintained
blighted premises.

   (C)   This subchapter shall apply to public and private property,
regardless of principal or accessory uses, and is intended to protect,
preserve and promote public health, safety and welfare, including the
preservation of property values.

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 150.031 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   BLIGHT ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A town official and/or employee
designated by the Board of Selectmen to enforce this subchapter and to
issue citations and/or take other actions he or she deems necessary to
compel compliance with it.

   BLIGHT HEARING CITATION OFFICER. An official appointed by the Board
of Selectmen who is not a town employee who will preside over blight
citation hearings, issue decisions and if necessary, convert assessments
into judgments in the State Superior Court.

   BLIGHTED PREMISES. Any building, structure or parcel of land where at
least one of the following conditions exists:

      (1)   A condition exists that poses a serious or immediate threat
to the health, safety or general welfare of the community;

      (2)   A building or structure is a fire hazard; or

      (3)   The property is in a state of disrepair or is becoming
dilapidated. STATE OF DISREPAIR or BECOMING DILAPIDATED shall mean in a
physically deteriorating condition causing unsafe or unsanitary
conditions or a nuisance to the general public and be evidenced by one
or more of the following conditions:

         (a)   Missing, broken or boarded up windows and doors longer
than six months;

         (b)   Collapsing or missing exterior walls or roof, or other
exterior features including, but not necessarily limited to, stairs,
porches, railings, hatchways, chimneys or floors;

         (c)   Seriously damaged or missing siding or roofing;

         (d)   Unrepaired fire or water damage longer than six months;

         (e)   Rodent harborage and/or infestation;

         (f)   Persistent household garbage or trash on the property;

         (g)   Abandoned or unused objects such as automobiles, boats
and recreation vehicles which are inoperable or unregistered or in an
obvious state of disrepair;

         (h)   Parking lots in excess of ten parking spaces in a state
of disrepair or abandonment evidenced, for example, by cracks, potholes,
overgrowth of vegetation within the surface, pavement or macadam, or
within medians and buffers;

         (i)   Shrubs, hedges, grass, plants, weeds or any other
vegetation that have been left to grow in an unkempt manner that are
covering or blocking means of egress or access to any building or that
are blocking, interfering with, or otherwise obstructing any sightline,
road sign or emergency access to or at the property, when viewed from
any property line. Maintained gardens, flower beds and xeriscape
landscaping as part of a landscape design are excluded from enforcement
under this division (3)(i);

         (j)   The overall condition of the property structure and/or
grounds causes an unreasonable impact on the value of neighboring
properties; and

         (k)   Vacant buildings or structure left unsecured or unguarded
against unauthorized entry.

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 150.032 EXEMPTIONS.

   The following properties shall be exempt from this subchapter:

   (A)   Farms as defined in the town zoning regulations: A tract of
land used for necessary farm buildings in connection with the raising
and/or caring for agricultural, livestock, poultry or dairy products,
but excluding the raising of fur bearing animals and the maintaining of
dog kennels; and

   (B)   Historic properties as defined in the town ordinance entitled
“Ordinance Designating Historic Properties and Establishing a Historic
Properties Commission” as codified in Chapter 154 of this code of
ordinances.

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 150.033 PROHIBITION.

   No owner, agent, occupant and/or a tenant required by a lease to
maintain a property, and/or any person in control of real property
located in the town shall allow, maintain or cause to be maintained a
blighted premises.

(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see § 150.999

§ 150.034 SPECIAL CONSIDERATION.

   (A)   Special consideration may be given to individuals that are
disabled, elderly or low income in the town’s effort to correct housing
blight. If an individual cannot maintain a reasonable level of upkeep of
his or her owner-occupied residence because the individual is disabled,
elderly or low income, and no capable individual resides in the
residence, the town may give said individual a reasonable amount of time
to correct the problem, the duration of which shall be in the discretion
of the Blight Enforcement Officer. If needed, assistance in finding
solutions will be offered by the town.

   (B)   (1)   CAPABLE INDIVIDUAL shall mean a person who can be
reasonably expected to perform maintenance and yard work around a
property or premises. This shall include children above 16 years of age,
without a physical or mental disability as defined herein.

      (2)   DISABLED INDIVIDUAL shall mean, in the case of an
owner-occupied residence, an individual who has a disability meeting the
definitions for the mental or physical disability as defined under the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and does not have a household
member capable of providing the necessary maintenance.

      (3)   ELDERLY INDIVIDUAL shall mean an individual over the age of
65, who does not have a household member capable of providing the
necessary maintenance.

      (4)   LOW INCOME INDIVIDUAL shall mean, in the case of an
owner-occupied residence, an individual, or where more than one person
resides in the premises, a family unit, that has an income below the
highest level of “qualifying income” established by Conn. Gen. Stat. §
12-170d(a)(3).

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 150.035 NOTICE OF BLIGHT VIOLATION.

   (A)   The Blight Enforcement Officer shall give written notice of a
violation of this subchapter to the owner and occupant of the premises
and may give written notice to his or her agent(s), and/or any other
person responsible for the blighted premises. The notice should be
mailed by both certified mail, return receipt requested, and regular
mail to the last known address of the person to whom it is directed, to
the owner of the property at the last known address on file in the Tax
Collector’s records and a copy by first class mail to any lienholder’s
current or last known address pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148gg.

   (B)   Such notice shall state the violation and demand its abatement
within 60 days. If the violation is not corrected at the end of the
60-day period, the Blight Enforcement Officer may issue an enforcement
citation and/or take other enforcement action as specified in § 150.036.

   (C)   Any person who is a new owner or new occupant of blighted
premises shall, upon request in writing to the Blight Enforcement
Officer, be granted a 30-day extension of the notice and opportunity to
remediate. For purposes of this subchapter, NEW OWNER shall mean any
person or entity who has taken title to a property within 30 days of the
notice of blight violation, and NEW OCCUPANT shall mean any person who
has taken occupancy of a property within 30 days of said notice.

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 150.036 ENFORCEMENT CITATION.

   (A)   A citation hearing procedure per Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152c is
hereby established for purposes of this subchapter. The Board of
Selectmen shall appoint one or more Citation Hearing Officers for the
town. The Citation Hearing Officer may not be a police officer, a Blight
Enforcement Officer or an employee of the town.

   (B)   If a violation remains unabated after 60 days as set forth in
the notice of violation issued per § 150.035, the Blight Enforcement
Officer may issue a citation to the owner and occupant, and may issue a
citation to any other person responsible for the violation in accordance
with this subchapter. The citation shall state the penalty amount in
accordance with § 150.999, and date (15 days plus three business days)
by which the uncontested payment of fines, penalties, costs or fees
shall be made. The blight citation shall be mailed by both certified
mail, return receipt requested, and regular mail to the owner of the
property at the last known address on file in the Tax Collector’s
records and to any other person responsible at his or her last known
address. In addition, the Blight Enforcement Officer shall make
reasonable efforts to send a copy by first class mail to any
lienholder’s current or last known address pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 7-148gg.

   (C)   Any person/entity issued a citation pursuant to this subchapter
shall be entitled to a hearing to contest the citation pursuant to the
provisions of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152c.

   (D)   (1)   At any time within 12 months from the expiration of the
final period for the uncontested payment of fines, penalties, costs or
fees set by a citation issued pursuant to this subchapter, the town
shall send notice to the person or persons or entity cited to inform the
person or persons:

         (a)   Of the allegations against him, her or it and the amount
of the fines, penalties, costs or fees due;

         (b)   That he, she or it may contest liability before a
Citation Hearing Officer by delivering in person or by mail written
notice to the office of the First Selectman, 108 Pennsylvania Avenue,
Niantic, Connecticut 06357, within ten days of the date thereof;

         (c)   That if he, she or it does not demand such a hearing, an
assessment and judgment shall be entered against him, her or it; and

         (d)   That such judgment may issue without further notice.

      (2)   For purposes of this section, notice shall be presumed to
have been properly sent if such notice was mailed to such person’s last
known address on file with the Tax Collector. If the person to whom
notice is issued is a registrant, the town may deliver the notice in
accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148H, provided nothing in this
section shall preclude the town from providing notice in another manner
permitted by applicable law. The notice shall also be sent by first
class mail to any lienholder’s current or last known address pursuant to
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148gg.

   (E)   If the person to whom notice is sent pursuant to this section
wishes to admit liability, he, she or it may, without requesting a
hearing, pay the full amount of the fines, penalties, costs or fees
admitted to in person or by mail to an official designated by the town.

   (F)   Any person to whom notice is sent who does not deliver or mail
written demand for a hearing within 15 days plus three business days of
the date of the first notice provided for by division (B) above shall be
deemed to have admitted liability, and the designated municipal official
shall certify such person’s failure to respond to the hearing officer.
The Citation Hearing Officer shall thereupon enter and assess the fine,
penalties, costs or fees provided for by this subchapter and shall
follow the procedures for obtaining a judgment from the Superior Court
set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 152c(f).

   (G)   A person who makes a timely request for a hearing shall be
given written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing. The
hearing shall be held at a time and conducted in the manner provided by
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152c(e).

      (1)   The Citation Hearing Officer shall issue a written decision
within 30 days of the hearing. If he or she determines that the person
is not liable, he or she shall dismiss the matter and enter his or her
determination in writing accordingly. If he or she determines that the
person is liable for the violation, he or she shall forthwith enter and
assess the fines, penalties, costs or fees against such person as
provided by this subchapter and issue a notice of assessment by first
class mail to the person found liable and to any lienholders pursuant to
Conn. Gen. Stat. §7-148gg. The property owner and the entity liable has
30 days from the notice of assessment to pay the fine.

      (2)   If the person responsible fails to pay the fine, not less
than 30 days nor more than 12 months after such mailing of the notice of
assessment, the Citation Hearing Officer shall file a certified copy of
the notice of assessment and an entry fee with the Clerk of a Superior
Court facility designated by the Chief Court Administrator.

      (3)   The person against whom an assessment has been entered by
the Citation Hearing Officer pursuant to this section is entitled to
judicial review by way of appeal pursuant to the provisions and
requirements of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152c(g).

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 150.037 RECORDING OF LIEN.

   Any unpaid fine imposed shall constitute a lien upon the real estate
in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148aa. Each such lien shall be
continued, recorded and released as provided for in Conn. Gen. Stat. §
7-148aa and the General Statutes. Each lien shall be mailed to
lienholders pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-148gg.

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 150.038 MUNICIPAL PERFORMANCE TO CORRECT; COSTS.

   (A)   In the event any owner, occupant, agent, tenant or person in
control of real estate shall fail to abate or correct any violation
specified in any notice, after the issuance of an enforcement citation
for such failure, which citation has become final through the failure of
such owner, agent, tenant or person in control of real estate to appeal
from the issuance of said citation, or by such appeal being sustained,
the town, acting through its Blight Enforcement Officer, may cause or
take such action as is necessary to correct such violation. The cost to
take such action shall be a civil claim by the town against such owner,
agent, tenant or person responsible for such property and the town may
bring an action to recover all such costs and expenses incurred.

   (B)   The owner of a blighted premises may choose to cooperate with
the Blight Enforcement Officer and permit the town to cure the blight;
provided said owner shall secure the payment of the town’s expenses of
remediation by way of a lien on the property, or such other document
satisfactory to the Town Attorney.

(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see § 150.999

§ 150.039 EXCEPTIONS AND PENDING APPROVALS.

   Any blighted premises for which any land use or building permit
application for improvements to the blighted premises is pending, or
which has been sold to a bona fide purchaser, shall be exempt from the
provisions of this subchapter for a period of 90 days from the date of
submittal of a complete application to the town or from the date of
sale.

(Ord. passed - -)

§ 150.040 CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY.

   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to
prevent the enforcement of other statutes, codes, ordinances or
regulations which prescribe standards other than are provided in this
subchapter.

   (B)   If a court of competent jurisdiction finds any provision of
this subchapter to be invalid or ineffective in whole or in part, the
effect of such decision shall be limited to those provisions which are
expressly stated in the decision to be invalid or ineffective, and all
other provisions of this subchapter shall continue to be separately and
fully effective. If any other ordinance or parts of ordinances are in
conflict herewith, the more restrictive provision shall apply.

(Ord. passed - -)

POSTING AND DISPLAYING NUMBERS ON BUILDINGS

§ 150.055 POSTING AND DISPLAYING NUMBERS ON BUILDINGS.

   (A)   The purpose of this section is to promote public safety and
convenience, and enhance the new E-9-1-1 telephone system by providing a
rational street numbering system by which addresses may be identified
with the ease and speed which is essential to the quick response of
emergency services, including police, firefighting and medical care.

   (B)   The Assessor shall assign a street identification number to
every residential, commercial, industrial or other structure located on
premises abutting a public street within the town except accessory
structures such as barns, garages or outbuildings which are located on
the same premises as the numbered structure.

   (C)   Every owner or occupant of a structure to which a number has
been assigned shall, within 120 days of the effective date of this
section or the date of assignment of a street identification number,
whichever date is earlier, prominently display the street number of such
structure, by placing said number in the manner herein provided.

   (D)   The numerals used to indicate the street identification number
of structures shall be located on the exterior front of the building or
on a signpost, mailbox or other device located between the building and
street.

   (E)   Such numerals shall be a minimum of four inches high and be of
a color contrasting with the background material to which they are
affixed. The location and size of such numerals shall be sufficient to
assure their visibility from the street.

   (F)   For buildings containing more than three dwelling units which
have entrances from interior passageways, numerals shall be affixed
within five feet of every door by which the building may be entered.

   (G)   No certificate of occupancy for a new structure shall be issued
until compliance with this section is completed.

   (H)   The compliance officer for enforcement of this section shall be
the Building Official.

(Ord. passed 4-16-1988) Penalty, see § 150.999

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 16, page 196

DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS

§ 150.070 DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS.

   (A)   (1)   No person shall, or shall cause another to, change the
grade of any land, or excavate, pave or fill any land in such a manner
as to cause surface water to drain from said land to a highway, without
first obtaining a permit in accordance with division (B) below. No such
permit shall be granted until and unless it is determined that the work
will not cause surface water to drain from such land to a highway in
such amounts or in such locations as to interfere with public travel,
damage the highway, collect on the highway or drain from the highway on
to land of any other person.

      (2)   No person shall, or shall cause another to, excavate in,
fill, cut or change the grade of any highway, or perform any other work
within the highway limits without first obtaining a permit in accordance
with division (B) below.

      (3)    No person shall construct, alter or move any building or
other structure, or perform any other work which requires a building
permit under the State Building Code, without first obtaining a permit
in accordance with division (B) below.

   (B)   (1)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Town
Engineer, or to such other person as may be designated by the First
Selectman, on a form prescribed by the Town Engineer. Such permits shall
be signed by the Town Engineer or such other designated person.

      (2)   The Town Engineer shall require from the applicant such
information as may be necessary to enable him or her to determine the
nature of the proposed work and what construction methods and details
should be required to satisfy the provisions and intent of this section.

      (3)   When, in his or her opinion, the best interests of the town
make it advisable, he or she may require a plan and profile prepared by
a professional engineer at the expense of the applicant.

      (4)   The First Selectman, upon the recommendation of the Town
Engineer, may require from the applicant evidence of liability insurance
and a surety bond, in such amounts as may be, in the opinion of the Town
Engineer, advisable for the protection of the town. The Town Engineer
shall, from time to time, recommend to the First Selectman reductions
and releases of such surety bonds insofar as that may be done consistent
with satisfying the provisions and intent of this section, and the First
Selectman may thereupon reduce and release such bonds.

   (C)   (1)   This section shall not apply to work undertaken by or for
the state or the town.

      (2)   When the Town Engineer determines that the proposed work
will not affect a town highway, he or she shall waive the provisions of
this section.

   (D)   Any permit granted hereunder may be suspended, modified or
revoked by the Town Engineer if unforeseen conditions or events occur or
if there shall be failure to comply with the provisions of the permit.

   (E)   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by the action of the Town
Engineer hereunder may appeal therefrom to the First Selectman within 30
days from the date of the action appealed from. Any person claiming to
be aggrieved by the decision of the First Selectman on such an appeal,
or by the action of the First Selectman under division (B)(4) above, may
appeal therefrom to the Board of Selectmen within 30 days from the date
of the decision by the First Selectman on such an appeal or the date of
the action of the First Selectman under division (B)(4) above. Any such
appeal shall be made in such manner and form as shall be determined by
the First Selectman. Within 30 days from the date of the appeal, a
hearing shall be held thereon after notice is given to all parties
deemed to have an interest. The decision or action appealed from may be
approved, disapproved or modified in order to satisfy the purposes of
this section.

(Ord. passed 9-21-1975) Penalty, see § 150.999

Editor’s note:   

   TM Volume 12, page 149

§ 150.999 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 10.99.

   (B)   Violations of §§ 150.030 through 150.040 shall be punishable by
a civil penalty of $10 per day for the first 90 days of a violation. If,
after 90 days the violation continues, the fine thereafter shall be $50
per day for each day a violation continues. Each day after due notice of
the violation has been served shall constitute a separate offense.

   (C)   Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of § 150.055 or
refuses or neglects to comply with the same, shall be deemed guilty of
an infraction and shall be fined $10 for each offense, and each and
every ten-day period of refusal or neglect to comply with the provisions
of § 150.055 shall be deemed a separate offense.

   (D)   Any person violating any provision of § 150.070 may be fined up
to $100. Each day on which a violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate violation.

(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 9-21-1975; Ord. passed 4-16-1988)

CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION

Section

Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact,
Purpose and Objectives

   151.01   Statutory authorization

   151.02   Findings of fact

   151.03   Statement of purpose

   151.04   Method of reducing flood losses

Definitions

   151.15   Definitions

General Provisions

   151.30   Lands to which this chapter applies

   151.31   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard

   151.32   Compliance

   151.33   Abrogation and greater restrictions

   151.34   Interpretation

   151.35   Warning and disclaimer of liability

Administration

   151.50   Establishment of development permit

   151.51   Designation of Zoning Official

   151.52   Duties and responsibilities of the Zoning Official

   151.53   Variance procedure

Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction

   151.65   General standards

   151.66   Specific standards

   151.67   Coastal high hazard area

   151.68   Floodways and standards for AO/AH zones

   151.69   Equal conveyance

   151.70   Compensatory storage

   151.71   Above ground storage tanks

   151.72   Portion of structure in flood zone

   151.73   Structures in two flood zones

   151.74   No structures entirely or partially over water

STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES

§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.

    The Legislature of the State of Connecticut has in the General
Statute delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Selectmen of
the town does ordain as follows.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.

   (A)    The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety and general welfare.

   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood
heights and velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in
other areas. Uses that are adequately floodproofed, elevated or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.

    It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:

   (A)   To protect human life and health;

   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood
control projects;

   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated
with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general
public;

   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;

   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as
water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and
bridges located in areas of special flood hazard;

   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the second
use and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize
future flood blight areas;

   (G)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is
in an area of special flood hazard; and

   (H)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood
hazard assume responsibility for their actions.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.04 METHOD OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.

    In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods
and provisions for:

   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;

   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of
initial construction;

   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream
channels and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or
channel flood waters;

   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development
which may increase flood damage; and

   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers
which will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood
hazards in other areas.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

DEFINITIONS

§ 151.15 DEFINITIONS.

    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   APPEAL. A request for a review of the interpretation of the Zoning
Official of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.

   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or VO Zone on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three
feet, a clearly defined channel does not exist, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident.

   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year.

   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the crest of the base
flood or 100-year flood. The height in relation to mean sea level
expected to be reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent
points in the floodplains of coastal and riverine areas.

   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.

   BREAKAWAY WALLS. Any type of walls, whether solid or lattice, and
whether constructed of concrete, masonry, wood, metal, plastic or any
other suitable building material which are not part of the structural
support of the building and which are so designed as to break away,
under abnormally high tides or wave action, without damage to the
structural integrity of the building on which they are used or any
buildings to which they might be carried by flood waters.

   COASTAL AE ZONE. The portion of the coastal high hazard area with
wave heights between one and one-half feet and three feet during the
base flood and seaward of the line labeled the Limit of Moderate Wave
Action (LiMWA) on a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).

   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending
from offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an
open coast and any other area subject to high velocity wave action from
storms or seismic sources. COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS are designated as
Zones VE and Coastal AE on a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).

   COST. As related to substantial improvements, the cost of any
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, alteration, repair or other
improvement of a structure shall be established by a detailed written
contractor's estimate. The estimate shall include, but not be limited
to: the cost of materials (interior finishing elements, structural
elements, utility and service equipment); sales tax on materials,
building equipment and fixtures, including heating and air conditioning
and utility meters; labor; built-in appliances; demolition and site
preparation; repairs made to damaged parts of the building worked on at
the same time; contractor's overhead; contractor's profit; and grand
total. Items to be excluded include: cost of plans and specifications;
survey costs; permit fees; outside improvements such as landscaping,
sidewalks, fences, yard lights, irrigation systems; and detached
structures such as garages, sheds, and gazebos.

   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to the construction of buildings or
structures; the construction of additions, alterations or substantial
improvements to buildings or structures; the placement of buildings or
structures; mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations or storage of equipment; the storage, deposition, or
extraction of materials; and the installation, repair or removal of
public or private sewage disposal systems or water supply facilities
within the area of special flood hazard.

   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured home are to be affixed
(including, as a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads) is completed before June 15, 1981, the effective date of
the floodplain management ordinance adopted by the community.

   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed
(including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets
and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).

   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The federal agency that
administers the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).

   FINISHED LIVING SPACE. As related to fully enclosed areas below the
base flood elevation (BFE), a space that is, but is not limited to,
heated and/or cooled, contains finished floors (tile, linoleum,
hardwood, etc.), has sheetrock walls that may or may not be painted or
wallpapered, and other amenities such as furniture, appliances,
bathrooms, fireplaces and other items that are easily damaged by
floodwaters and expensive to clean, repair or replace.

   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:

      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or

      (2)   The usual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.

   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community.

   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has provided flood profiles, as well as the
Flood Insurance Rate Map and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.

   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.

   FLOODWAY FRINGE. Area between the floodway and the boundary of the
100-year flood area.

   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.
The term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are
necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship
building and ship repair facilities, but does not include long term
storage, seafood processing facilities, manufacturing, sales or service
facilities.

   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a
structure.

   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:

      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic
Places (a listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;

      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
the Interior as contributing to the historic significance of a
registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by
the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;

      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places
in states with historic preservation programs which have been approved
by the Secretary of the Interior; or

      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places
in communities with historic preservation programs that have been
certified either:

         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the
Secretary of the Interior; or

         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states
without approved programs.

   LIMIT OF MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA). The landward limit of the one
and one-half foot breaking wave within a Coastal AE Zone. These areas
are seaward of the line labeled LIMIT OF MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA) on
a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).

   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor.

   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.
Recreational vehicles and similar transportable structure are not
considered manufactured homes unless placed on a site for 180
consecutive days or longer.

   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for
rent or sale.

   MARKET VALUE. As related to substantial improvement and substantial
damage, the value of the structure shall be determined by an independent
appraisal by a professional appraiser of the structure prior to the
start of the initial repair or improvement, or in the case of damage,
the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring.

   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program,
the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum to which
base flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map
are referenced.

   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after June 15, 1981, the effective date of this chapter
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.

   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at
a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets,
and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after June 15, 1981, the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by the community.

   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. 

      (1)   A vehicle which is:

         (a)   Built on a single chassis;

         (b)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at
the largest horizontal projections;

         (c)   Designed to be a self-propelled or permanently towable by
light-duty truck; and

         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling
but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or
seasonable use.

      (2)   Recreational vehicles and similar transportable structures
placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer shall be considered
manufactured homes for the purpose of these regulations.

   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or
mounds landward of the beach.

   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given
year. SFHAs are determined utilizing the base flood elevations (BFE)
provided on the flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for a
community. BFEs provided on Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) are only
approximate (rounded up or down) and should be verified with the BFEs
published in the FIS for a specific location. SFHAs include, but are not
necessarily limited to, the land shown as Zones A, AE, AO, AH, and the
Coastal High Hazard Areas shown as Zones VE and Coastal AE on a FIRM.
The SFHA is also called the Area of Special Flood Hazard.

   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date that the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
placement, or other improvement was within l80 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any
work beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured
home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grade and filing; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.

   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building manufactured home, or
including a gas or liquid storage tank or mobile home that is
principally above ground.

   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure,
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition
would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damages
sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a two-year
period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood
event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred.

   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.

      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure,
taking place over a two-year period, the cumulative cost of which equals
or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:

         (a)   Before the start of construction of the improvement or
repair; or

         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored
to its condition before the damage occurred. This term includes
structures which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the
actual repair work performed. For the purposes of this definition,
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration
of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure.

      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:

         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been previously identified and documented by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary
to assure safe living conditions; or

         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.

   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter
which permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be
prohibited by this chapter.

   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management ordinance. A
structure or other development without required permits, lowest floor
elevation documentation, floodproofing certificates or required floodway
encroachment calculations is resumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided.

   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where
specified), of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the
floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 151.30 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.

    This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards
within the jurisdiction of East Lyme, Connecticut.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.31 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.

    The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
for New London County, Connecticut, dated April 3, 2020, and
accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), dated August 5, 2013,
(Panels 09011C0459J, 09011C0467J, 09011C0477J, 09011C0478J, 09011C0479J,
09011C0481J, 09011C0483J, 09011C0486J, 09011C0487J) and July 18, 2011
(Panels 09011C0309G, 09011C0316G, 09011C0317G, 09011C0318G, 09011C0319G,
09011C0328G, 09011C0336G, 09011C0337G, 09011C0338G, 09011C0339G,
09011C0457G, 09011C0476G) and other supporting data applicable to the
Town of East Lyme, and any subsequent revisions thereto, are adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this regulation. Since mapping is
legally adopted by reference into this regulation it must take
precedence when more restrictive until such time as a map amendment or
map revision is obtained from FEMA. The area of    special flood hazard
includes any area shown on the FIRM as Zones A, AE, AO, AH, Coastal AE
and VE, including areas designated as a floodway on a FIRM. Zones VE and
Coastal AE are also identified as Coastal High Hazard Areas. Areas of
special flood hazard are determined utilizing the base flood elevations
(BFE) provided on the flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
for a community. BFEs provided on a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) are
only approximate (rounded up or down) and should be verified with the
BFEs published in the FIS for a specific location. The FIRM and FIS are
on file in the Town Hall, East Lyme, Connecticut.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 6-19-1984; Ord. passed 12-19-1988;
Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

   TM Volume 15, page 93

§ 151.32 COMPLIANCE.

    No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms
of this chapter and other applicable regulations.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)
Penalty, see § 10.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.33 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.

    This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter and any other chapter, easement, covenant, or deed restriction
conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.34 INTERPRETATION.

    In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all
provisions shall be:

   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;

   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and

   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.35 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.

    The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific
and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare
occasions. Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes.
This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood
hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of
the Town of East Lyme, Connecticut, any officer or employee thereof or
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damages that
Management Agency, for any flood damages that result from reliance on
these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

ADMINISTRATION

§ 151.50 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.

   (A)    A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard established
in § 151.31.

   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms
furnished by the Zoning Official and may include, but not be limited to:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; the limit of the
100-year floodplain, the limit of moderate wave action (LiMWA) boundary
line the floodway boundary line and base flood elevation(s), existing or
proposed structures, fill, storage or materials, drainage facilities;
and the location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following
information is required:

      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;

      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
structure has been floodproofed;

      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice and the floodproofing criteria in §
151.66(B);

      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;

      (5)   Plans for any walls to be used to enclose space below the
base flood level; and

      (6)   The limit of the 100-year floodplain, the limit of moderate
wave action (LiMWA) boundary line the floodway boundary line and base
flood elevation(s).

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.51 DESIGNATION OF ZONING OFFICIAL.

   The Zoning Official is hereby appointed to administer and implement
this chapter by granting or denying development permit applications in
accordance with its provisions.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.52 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ZONING OFFICIAL.

   Duties of the Zoning Official shall include, but not be limited to:

   (A)   Permit review.

      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied and whether proposed
building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding;

      (2)   Review all development permits to determine that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;

      (3)   Review all development permits in the area of special flood
hazard except in the coastal high hazard area to determine if the
proposed development adversely affects the flood-carrying capacity of
the area of special flood hazard. For the purposes of this chapter,
ADVERSELY AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed
development when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base
flood more than one foot at any point;

      (4)   Review all development permits in the coastal high hazard
area of the area of special flood hazard to determine if the proposed
development alters mangrove stands or sand dunes so as to increase
potential flood damage; and

      (5)   Review plans for walls to be used to enclose space below the
base flood level in accordance with § 151.67(B)(4).

   (B)   Use of other base flood data. When base flood elevation data
has not been provided in accordance with § 151.31, the Zoning Official
shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation
data available from a federal, state or other source, in order to
administer these regulations.

   (C)   Information to be obtained and maintained.

      (1)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) of the lowest habitable floor (including basement) of all new
or substantially improved structures;

      (2)   For all new substantially improved floodproofed structures:

         (a)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level); and

         (b)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
151.50(C).

      (3)   In coastal high hazard areas, (VE and Coastal AE Zones)
certification shall be obtained from a registered professional engineer
or architect that the structure is designed to be securely anchored to
adequately anchored pilings or columns in order to withstand velocity
waters and hurricane wave wash; and

      (4)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.

   (D)   Alteration of watercourses.

      (1)   Notify adjacent communities, the Department of Energy and
Environmental Protection (Land and Water Resource Division) and the
Southeastern Connecticut Council of Governments (SCCOG), prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and

      (2)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying
capacity is not diminished.

   (E)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. Make interpretations where
needed, as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazards, for example, where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation.

   (F)   Upon completion of the applicable portion of construction, the
applicant shall provide verification to the Zoning Official of the
following as is applicable. Lowest floor elevation shall be verified
for:

      (1)   A structure in Zones A, AE, AO or AH is the top of the
lowest floor including basement);

      (2)   A structure in Zones VE and Coastal AE is the bottom of the
lowest horizontal structural member (excluding pilings or columns);

      (3)   A non-residential structure that has been dry floodproofed
is the elevation to which the floodproofing is effective. (Note: For
insurance purposes, a dry floodproofed, non-residential structure is
rated based on the elevation of its lowest floor unless it is
floodproofed to one foot above the BFE.);

      (4)   Verification of the above shall be provided on a FEMA
Elevation Certificate, Floodproofing Certificate for Non-Residential
Structures Form 086-0-34, and V Zone Design Certificate, as applicable.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.53 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.

   (A)   Appeal Board.

      (1)   The Board of Selectmen shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.

      (2)   The Board of Selectmen shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Official in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.

      (3)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Selectmen or
any taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the Superior Court as provided
in the Connecticut General Statutes.

      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Selectmen
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and:

         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands
to the injury of others;

         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or
erosion damage;

         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its
contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual
owner;

         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;

         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location,
where applicable;

         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, for the
proposed use which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;

         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;

         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive
plan and floodplain management program of that;

         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood
for ordinary and emergency vehicles;

         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise
and sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave
action, if applicable, expected at the site; and

         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and
after flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems, and streets and bridges.

      (5)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood level, providing items in divisions
(A)(4)(a) through (A)(4)(k) above have been fully considered. As the lot
size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification
required for issuing the variance increases.

      (6)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (A)(4) above
and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Selectmen may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further
the purposes of this chapter.

      (7)   The Zoning Official shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency in its biennial report.

   (B)   Conditions for variances in flood hazard areas.

      (1)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places,
without regard to the procedures set forth in the remainder of this
section.

      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.

      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard to
afford relief.

      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:

         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;

         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and

         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.

      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a
lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost
of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the lowest floor elevation up to amount as high as $25
for $100 of insurance coverage.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION

§ 151.65 GENERAL STANDARDS.

    In all areas of special flood hazards the following standards are
required.

   (A)   Anchoring.

      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including
the effects of buoyancy.

      (2)   New construction, substantial improvements, and repair to
structures that have sustained substantial damage shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment that are flood-damage resistant and
conform to the provisions of FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood
Damage-Resistant Material Requirements. This includes, but is not
limited to, flooring, interior and exterior walls, wall coverings and
other materials installed below the base flood elevation plus one foot.

      (3)   All manufactured homes to be placed, or substantially
improved, shall be elevated so that the lowest floor is one foot above
the base flood elevation and shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties
to ground anchors. This includes manufactured homes located outside a
manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured home park
or subdivision, in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, in
an expansion to an existing manufactured home park in which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood. Specific requirements shall be that:

         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners
of the manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at
intermediate locations, with mobile homes less than 50 feet long
requiring one additional tie per side;

         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with
five additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured
homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
and

         (c)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of
carrying a force of 4,800 pounds.

      (4)   All manufactured homes, as specified in division (A)(3)
above, shall be placed on a permanent foundation which itself is
securely anchored and to which the structure is securely anchored so
that it will resist flotation, lateral movement, and hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic pressures. Anchoring may include, but not be limited to,
the use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.

   (B)   Construction materials and methods.

      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.

      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.

      (3)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities shall be designed
and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.

   (C)   Utilities.

      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
system;

      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
systems and discharge from the systems into flood waters; and

      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.

      (4)   The bottom of all electrical, heating, plumbing, ventilation
and air conditioning equipment, appliances, fixtures and components,
HVAC duct work and duct systems, and any other utility service
equipment, facilities, machinery, or connections servicing a structure
shall be elevated one foot above the base flood elevation (BFE). This
includes, but is not limited to, furnaces, oil or propane tanks, air
conditioners, heat pumps, hot water heaters, ventilation duct work,
washer and dryer hook-ups, electrical junction boxes, and circuit
breaker boxes. Systems, fixtures, equipment and components shall not be
mounted on or penetrate through breakaway walls intended to fail under
flood loads. Connections or other equipment that must be located below
the BFE plus one foot elevation are permitted only when no other
elevation alternative is available and provided they are designed and
installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components and to resist hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
stresses, including the effects of buoyancy, during the occurrence of
the base flood event. Electrical wiring systems that must be located
below the BFE plus one foot shall conform to the standards for wet
locations.

    (D)   Subdivision proposals.

      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage;

      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;

      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage
provided to reduce exposure to flood; and

      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development which contain at least 50 lots
or five acres (whichever is less).

   (E)   Standards for streams without established base flood
elevations, floodways and/or flood mapping.

      (1)   The Zoning Official shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, including data developed pursuant to §§
15.3.3.(b) or 15.5.1.(d)(4) of these regulations or § 6-6-1(7) of the
town's subdivision regulations, as criteria for requiring that new
construction, substantial improvements or other development in A, or AE
Zones on the community's FIRM meet the standards in § 15.5.2.

      (2)   In AE Zones where base flood elevations have been
determined, but before a floodway is designated, no new construction,
substantial improvement, or other development (including fill) shall be
permitted which will increase base flood elevations more than one foot
at any point along the watercourse when all anticipated development is
considered cumulatively with the proposed development.

      (3)   The Zoning Official may request or accept floodway data of
an applicant for watercourses without FEMA-published floodways. When
such data is provided by an applicant or from any other source, the town
shall adopt a regulatory floodway. The floodway shall be based on only
the principle that the floodway must be able to convey the waters of the
base flood without increasing the water surface elevation more than one
foot at any point along the watercourse.

      (4)   Where no base flood elevation (BFE) or floodway data is
available, the Zoning Enforcement Official shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available
from a Federal, State, or other source, as criteria for requiring that
new construction, substantial improvements, or other development in any
area of potential, demonstrable or historical flooding within the
community meet the standards in § 15.5.2. A registered professional
engineer must determine the BFE in accordance with accepted hydrologic
and hydraulic engineering practices and document the technical methods
used. Studies, analyses and computations shall be submitted in
sufficient detail to allow thorough review and approval.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.66 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.

   (A)   Residential construction. In Special Flood Hazard Areas A and
AE, new construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
one foot above base flood elevation. All new construction, substantial
improvements, and repair to structures that have sustained substantial
damage which are residential structures shall have the bottom of the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot above the base flood
elevation (BFE). Electrical, plumbing, machinery or other utility
equipment that service the structure must be elevated one foot above the
BFE.

   (B)   Nonresidential construction. In Special Flood Hazard Areas A
and AE, all new construction, substantial improvements, and repair to
structures that have sustained substantial damage which are commercial,
industrial or non-residential structures shall:

      (1)   Have the bottom of the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated one foot above the base flood elevation (BFE); or;

      (2)   In lieu of being elevated, non-residential structures may be
dry floodproofed to one foot above the BFE provided that together with
all attendant utilities and sanitary facilities the areas of the
structure below the required elevation are watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and provided that
such structures are composed of structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall review and/or develop structural design specifications and plans
for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with acceptable standards of practice for
meeting the provisions of this chapter. Such certification shall be
provided to the zoning official on the FEMA Floodproofing Certificate,
Form 086-0-34.

      (3)   Electrical, plumbing, machinery or other utility equipment
that service the structure must be elevated one foot above the BFE.

   (C)   Fully enclosed areas below the base flood elevation of elevated
buildings. In Special Flood Hazard Areas A and AE, all new construction,
substantial improvements, or repair to structures that have sustained
substantial damage, whether residential or non-residential, that include
fully enclosed areas formed by a foundation and other exterior walls
shall have the lowest floor elevated to one foot above the base flood
elevation (BFE). The elevated building shall be designed to preclude
finished living space below the lowest floor and be designed to allow
for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls (wet floodproofing). Designs
for complying with this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect as meeting the
requirements of ASCE 24 § 2.6.2.2, or meet the following minimum
criteria listed in divisions (C) (1) through (8) below:

      (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings (hydraulic flood vents)
having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every one
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. The enclosed area is
measured on the exterior of the enclosure walls. These hydraulic
openings must be located on at least two different exterior walls of
each enclosed area. If the structure has more than one enclosed area,
openings must be installed in the exterior walls of each enclosed area
so that flood waters can enter directly from the outside;

      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the higher of either the final interior grade or floor elevation,
or the finished exterior grade adjacent to the outside of the foundation
wall. At least one entire side of the structure's fully enclosed area
must be at or above grade. Fill placed around the foundation walls must
be graded so that the elevation inside the enclosed area is equal to or
higher than the adjacent outside elevation on at least one side of the
building. The finished floor of the enclosed area shall be no lower than
the bottom of the foundation openings. The foundation slab of a
residential structure, including the slab of a crawlspace, must be set
equal to the outside finished grade on at least one side of the
building;

      (3)   The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves
or other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters in both directions without any external
influence or control such as human intervention, including the use of
electrical and other non-automatic mechanical means. These coverings
must not block or impede the automatic flow of floodwaters into and out
of the enclosed area. Other coverings may be designed and certified by a
registered professional engineer or approved by the [title of local
administrator];

      (4)   Openings shall not be less than three inches in any
direction in the plane of the wall;

      (5)   The area cannot be used as finished living space. Use of the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary and shall only be used for
the parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage. Access to
the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for the
parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door)
or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The enclosed area
shall not be used for human habitation;

      (6)   All interior walls, floor, and ceiling materials located
below one foot above the BFE shall be unfinished and flood
damage-resistant in accordance with FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood
Damage-Resistant Requirements.

      (7)   Electrical, plumbing, HVAC duct work, machinery or other
utility equipment and connections that service the structure (including,
but not limited to, furnaces, oil or propane tanks, air conditioners,
heat pumps, hot water heaters, ventilation, washer and dryer hook-ups,
electrical junction boxes, circuit breaker boxes and food freezers) are
prohibited in the fully enclosed area below the BFE plus one foot.
Utilities or service equipment located in this enclosed area, even if
elevated to one foot above the BFE in the space, may subject the
structure to increased flood insurance rates.

      (8)   A residential building with a structurally attached garage
having the floor slab below the BFE is considered an enclosed area below
the BFE and must meet the standards of § 151.66(C)(1) through (7) above.
A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed with the
garage floor slab below the BFE, must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters in both directions. Flood
openings or vents are required in the exterior walls of the garage or in
the garage doors. Garage doors that must be manually opened do not meet
the flood vent requirements in § 151.66(C)(1) through (3). In addition
to the automatic entry of floodwaters, the areas of the garage below BFE
plus one foot must be constructed with flood damage-resistant materials
per the requirements of FEMA Technical Bulletin 2. Garages attached to
non-residential structures must also meet the aforementioned
requirements or be dry floodproofed as per the requirements of §
151.66(B).

   (D)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.

      (1)   In Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA) with Zones A and AE,
any manufactured (mobile) home to be newly placed, undergoing a
substantial improvement or repaired as a result of substantial damage,
shall be elevated so that the bottom of the frame is located one foot
above the base flood elevation (BFE). The manufactured home must also
meet all the construction standards for Zones A and AE as per §§ 151.66
and 151.65. The foundation and anchorage of manufactured homes to be
located in floodways shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with ASCE 24. This includes SFHAs outside a manufactured home park or
subdivision, in a new manufactured home park or subdivision, in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision, or on a site in an
existing manufactured home park in which a manufactured home has
incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood.

      (2)   In Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA) with Zones VE and
Coastal AE, any manufactured (mobile) home to be newly placed,
undergoing a substantial improvement or repaired as a result of
sustained substantial damage, shall be elevated so that the bottom of
the lowest horizontal structural member located one foot above the base
flood elevation (BFE). The manufactured home must also meet all the
construction standards for Zones VE and Coastal AE as per § 151.67. This
includes SFHAs outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision, in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision, or on a site in an existing manufactured home park
in which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result
of a flood.

      (3)   All manufactured (mobile) homes within SFHA shall be placed
on a permanent foundation which itself is securely anchored and to which
the structure is securely anchored so that it will resist flotation,
lateral movement and hydrostatic pressures. Anchoring may include, but
not be limited to, the use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors.

      (4)   All manufactured (mobile) homes within SFHA shall be
installed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
Adequate access and drainage should be provided. Elevation construction
standards include piling foundations placed no more than ten feet apart,
and reinforcement is provided for piers more than six feet above ground
level.

      (5)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A and AE
in the SFHA shall either be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive
days, and be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or meet all the
general standards of § 151.65 and the elevation and anchoring
requirement of §§ 151.66, 151.65(A) and 151.66(D)(3). A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.

      (6)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zone VE and
Coastal AE in the SFHA shall either be on the site for fewer than 180
consecutive days, and be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
meet all the general standards of § 151.65, the VE and Coastal AE Zone
construction requirements of § 151.67, and the elevation and anchoring
requirement of §§ 151.67, 151.65(A) and 151.66(D)(3). A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.67 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA.

    Coastal high hazard areas (VE and Coastal AE Zones) are located
within the areas of special flood hazard. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with high velocity waters from tidal surges and
hurricane wave wash; therefore, the following provisions shall apply.

   (A)   Location of structures.

      (1)   All buildings or structures shall be located landward of
reach of the mean high tide.

      (2)   The placement of manufactured homes shall be prohibited,
except in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision.
Manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an existing
manufactured home park must meet the construction requirements for
coastal high hazard areas provided in § 151.67. All manufactured homes
within VE zones shall be placed on a permanent foundation which itself
is securely anchored and to which the structure is securely anchored so
that it will resist flotation, lateral movement and hydrostatic
pressures. Anchoring may include, but not be limited to, the use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. All manufactured homes
within VE zones shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage. Adequate access and drainage should be provided.

   (B)   Construction methods.

      (1)   All new construction, substantial improvement and repair to
structures that have sustained substantial damage shall be elevated so
that the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member (excluding
pilings, pile caps, and columns) is elevated at least one foot above the
base flood elevation (BFE), with all space below the lowest horizontal
supporting member open and free of obstruction so as not to impede the
flow of water. Basement floors that are below ground on all sides are
prohibited.

      (2)   The bottom of all electrical, plumbing, machinery or other
utility equipment that service the structure must be elevated one foot
above the BFE and cannot be located below the structure. Any service
equipment that must be located below the BFE must be floodproofed to
prevent water from entering during conditions of flooding. Electrical,
mechanical and plumbing system components are not to be mounted on or
penetrate through walls designed to breakaway under flood loads.

      (3)   To protect the building envelope, an exterior door shall be
installed at the top of the stairs that provides access to the lowest
floor of the structure. The lowest level in a VE zone structure is not
habitable space.

      (4)   The base of a chimney or fireplace shall not extend below
the BFE plus one foot. When vertical support is required, a chimney or
fireplace shall be vertically supported on pile or column foundations
embedded at least as deep as the rest of the structure foundation or
deeper where needed to support the chimney against water and wind loads.
The chimney and fireplace system shall be designed to minimize transfer
of water and wind loads to the structure or structure foundation.

      (5)   Structural support.

         (a)   Pilings or columns used as structural support and the
structure attached thereto shall be designed and anchored so as to
resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement due to the effects of
wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components.

         (b)   There shall be no fill used for structural support. Minor
grading and the placement of minor quantities of non-compacted fill
shall be permitted for landscaping and drainage purposes under and
around buildings, and for support of parking slabs, pool decks, patios
and walkways installed at current grade. The fill must wash out from
storm surge, thereby rendering the building free of obstruction, prior
to generating excessive loading forces, ramping effects, or wave
deflection.

      (6)   Certification. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify that the design and methods of construction to
be used are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for
meeting the provisions of § 151.67 with a FEMA V Zone Design
Certificate.

      (7)   Space below the lowest floor.

         (a)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to
a structure started after the enactment of this chapter shall not
enclose the space below the lowest floor unless breakaway walls, open
wood lattice work, or insect screening are used as provided for in this
section.

         (b)   Non-supporting breakaway walls, open wood lattice work,
or insert screening shall be allowed below the lowest floor provided
they are intended to collapse under wind and water loads without causing
collapse, displacement, or other structural damage to the elevated
portion of the building or supporting foundation system.

         (c)   Areas enclosed by breakaway walls shall contain hydraulic
flood vents per the requirements of § 151.66(C). For the purpose of this
section, a breakaway wall shall have a design safe loading resistance of
not less than ten and no more than 20 pounds per square foot. Use of
breakaway walls which exceed a design safe loading resistance of 20
pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required by local or
state codes) may be permitted only if a registered professional engineer
or architect certifies that the designs proposed meet the following
conditions:

            1.   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from a water load
less than that which would occur during the base flood; and

            2.   The elevated portion of the building and supporting
foundation system shall not be subject to collapse, displacement, or
other structural damage due to the effects of wind and water loads
acting simultaneously on all building components (structural and
non-structural). Maximum wind and water loading values to be used in the
determination shall each have a 1% chance of being equaled or exceed in
any given year (l00 year mean recurrence interval).

         (d)   If breakaway walls are utilized, such enclosed space
shall not be used for human habitation but solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage.

         (e)   Prior to construction, plans for any structure that will
have breakaway walls must be submitted to the Zoning Official for
approval.

   (C)   Sand dunes. There shall be no alteration of sand dunes which
could increase potential flood damage.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.68 FLOODWAYS AND STANDARDS FOR AO/AH ZONES.

   Located within areas of special flood hazard are areas designated as
floodways. Since the floodway is in an extremely hazardous area due to
the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles
and erosion potential, the following provisions apply:

   (A)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted
regulatory floodway unless certification, with supporting technical
data, by a Connecticut registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating, through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice, that encroachments shall
not result in any (0.00 feet) increase in flood levels during occurrence
of the base flood discharge published by FEMA. Buildings and structures
meeting the standard above and located in whole or in part in the
floodway shall be designed and constructed in accordance with ASCE 24.
Fences in the floodway must be aligned with the flow and be of an open
design.

   (B)   Standards for Development in Areas of Shallow Flooding (Zones
AO and AH). Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA) are
areas designated as shallow flooding areas (AO and AH Zones). These
areas have flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to
three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the
path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. In AO and AH zones,
the following provisions apply:

   (C)   For residential structures, all new construction, substantial
improvements and repair to structures that have sustained substantial
damage shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above
the highest adjacent grade at least as high as one foot above the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). If no depth
number is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade.

   (D)   For non-residential structures, all new construction,
substantial improvements and repair to structures that have sustained
substantial damage shall:

      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above
the highest adjacent grade at least as high as one foot above the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). If no depth
number is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade; or

      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed to above the highest adjacent grade at least as
high as one foot above the depth number specified on the FIRM, or if no
depth number is specified at least three feet above the highest adjacent
grade, so that any space below that level is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Designs for complying with
this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect.

   (E)   On-site drainage for all proposed structures in AO and AH Zones
located on slopes shall provide adequate drainage paths to guide flood
waters around and away from such structures.

   (F)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor in AO and AH Zones
must comply with the provisions of § 151.66(C) for hydraulic vents.

(Ord. passed 6-22-1981; Ord. passed 12-19-1988; Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 14, page 122; TM Volume 16, page 262, Amended

§ 151.69 EQUAL CONVEYANCE.

   Within the floodplain, except those areas which are tidally
influenced, as designated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for the
community, encroachments resulting from filling, new construction or
substantial improvements involving an increase in footprint of the
structure, are prohibited unless the applicant provides certification by
a registered professional engineer demonstrating, with supporting
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice, that such encroachments shall not result in any
(0.00 feet) increase in flood levels (base flood elevation). Work within
the floodplain and the land adjacent to the floodplain, including work
to provide compensatory storage shall not be constructed in such a way
so as to cause an increase in flood stage or flood velocity.

(Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

§ 151.70 COMPENSATORY STORAGE.

   The water holding capacity of the floodplain, except those areas
which are tidally influenced, shall not be reduced. Any reduction caused
by filling, new construction or substantial improvements involving an
increase in footprint to the structure, shall be compensated for by
deepening and/or widening of the floodplain. Storage shall be provided
on-site, unless easements have been gained from adjacent property
owners; it shall be provided within the same hydraulic reach and a
volume not previously used for flood storage; it shall be hydraulically
comparable and incrementally equal to the theoretical volume of flood
water at each elevation, up to and including the 100-year flood
elevation, which would be displaced by the proposed project. Such
compensatory volume shall have an unrestricted hydraulic connection to
the same waterway or water body. Compensatory storage can be provided
off-site if approved by the municipality.

(Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

§ 151.71 ABOVE GROUND STORAGE TANKS.

   In all flood zones, underground tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement under conditions of the base
flood. In VE and Coastal AE zones, above-ground storage tanks which are
located outside or inside of a structure must be elevated one foot above
the base flood elevation (BFE). Where elevated on platforms, the
platforms shall be cantilevered from or knee braced to the building or
shall be supported on elevated foundations that conform to the standards
for the particular flood zone as described in § 5.3. In A and AE zones,
above-ground storage tanks which are located outside or inside of a
structure shall be elevated one foot above the base flood elevation
(BFE) or shall be securely anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement under conditions of the base flood. Anchored tanks must
have the top of the fill pipe located at least one foot above the BFE
and have a screw fill cap that does not allow for the infiltration of
flood water.

(Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

§ 151.72 PORTION OF STRUCTURE IN FLOOD ZONE.

   If any portion of a structure lies within the Special Flood Hazard
Area (SFHA), the entire structure is considered to be located within the
SFHA and must meet the construction requirements of the flood zone. The
structure includes any structurally attached additions, garages, decks,
porches, sunrooms, patios or any other structure attached to the main
structure.

(Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

§ 151.73 STRUCTURES IN TWO FLOOD ZONES.

   If a structure lies within two or more flood zones, the construction
standards of the most restrictive zone apply to the entire structure
(i.e., VE zone is more restrictive than AE zone; structure must be built
to the highest BFE). The structure includes any structurally attached
additions, garages, decks, porches, patios, sunrooms, or any other
structure attached to the main structure.

(Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

§ 151.74 NO STRUCTURES ENTIRELY OR PARTIALLY OVER WATER.

   New construction, substantial improvements and repair to structures
that have sustained substantial damage cannot be constructed or located
entirely or partially over water unless it is a functionally dependent
use or facility.

(Ord. passed 5-31-2022)

CHAPTER 152: HARBOR MANAGEMENT

Section

In General

   152.01   Purposes

   152.02   Boundaries

   152.03   Definitions

   152.04   General provisions

   152.05   Use of the harbor management area

   152.06   Mooring and anchoring vessels

   152.07   Marine sanitation

Harbor Management Commission

   152.20   Establishment, jurisdiction and membership

   152.21   Powers, duties and responsibilities

   152.22   Consultation and coordination with other town boards and
commissions and state and federal agencies

   152.99   Penalty

IN GENERAL

§ 152.01 PURPOSES.

   (A)    The town has established a Harbor Management Commission which
also is designated as the Town Shellfish Commission. This chapter is a
harbor management chapter and it and the harbor management plan
referenced herein shall not be construed as effectuating regulations or
procedures applicable to shell fishing or shellfish grounds within the
Harbor Management Commission's jurisdiction when acting as a Shellfish
Commission.

   (B)   The Harbor Management Commission has prepared a harbor
management plan pursuant to the requirements of Conn. Gen. Stat. §§
22a-113k through 22a-113s and other related legislation.

   (C)   The town desires to manage its harbor resources in the most
effective manner and plan for the most desirable use of the town harbor
management area for conservation, recreation and development.

   (D)   Therefore, the Board of Selectmen hereby enacts the following
regulations for the management of the town harbor management area.

(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 20, page 144

§ 152.02 BOUNDARIES.

   (A)   Harbor management area boundaries. The overall boundaries of
the East Lyme harbor management area include all navigable waters and
intertidal areas below the mean high water line of the shoreline of the
town and bounded on the east by the East Lyme/Waterford town line; on
the south by a straight line running from Millstone Point to Black Point
and by a straight line running from Black Point to Hatchetts Point; and
on the west by the East Lyme/Old Lyme town line.

   (B)   Shellfish grounds boundaries. The Town Harbor Management
Commission shall have charge of all shellfisheries and shellfish grounds
lying in the town not granted to the Waterford-East Lyme Shellfish
Commission by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 26-287, Revision of 1958, as amended,
and not under the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Agriculture,
including all rivers, inland waters and flats adjacent to all beaches
and waters within the limits and marine bounds (below the mean high
water line) of the town.

(Ord. passed 5-4-1994 ; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 20, page 144

§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   ABODE. The principal, non-water dependent use of a structure or
vessel as a dwelling or home.

   ANCHOR (See also MOORING and MOORING TACKLE).

      (1)   A heavy device, fastened to a chain or line, and dropped to
the bottom of a waterbody to hold a vessel in position.

      (2)   To secure a vessel temporarily to the bottom of a waterbody
by dropping an anchor or anchors or other ground tackle from a vessel.

   ANCHORAGE. Those water areas designated for anchoring with ground
tackle carried on board a vessel.

   CHANNEL. Water areas specifically reserved for unobstructed movement
of vessels, shown on navigation charts, and marked in-water by aids to
navigation.

   COASTAL JURISDICTIONAL LINE (CJL). The line defined by the
topographical elevation of the highest predicted tide for the period
beginning in 1983 and ending in 2001, calculated for each coastal
municipality for the purpose of defining the regulatory jurisdiction of
the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection.
Proposed work and structures waterward of the coastal jurisdictional
line are subject to the DEEP's coastal regulatory authorities, including
authorities regulating structures, dredging and fill. Prior to October
1, 2012, the DEEP's regulatory jurisdiction was marked by the high tide
line.

   COASTAL SITE PLAN REVIEW. The process whereby specific development
plans proposed within the town’s coastal boundary are reviewed by the
Planning and Zoning Commissions for consistency with the town’s
Municipal Coastal Program and the Connecticut Coastal Management Act.

   COMMERCIAL MOORING. A mooring as defined by the Corps of Engineers
for which any type of a fee is charged (excepting a fee charged by the
town for a mooring permit issued by the Harbor Master) and which must be
authorized by an individual permit from the Corps of Engineers, the
State Department of Environmental Protection and the Harbor Master.

   COMMERCIAL VESSEL. Any vessel, licensed or unlicensed, used or
engaged for any type of commercial venture, including, but not limited
to, the carrying of cargo and/or passengers for hire and commercial
fishing.

   DEPUTY HARBOR MASTER. The Deputy Harbor Master appointed by the
Governor of Connecticut in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 15-1, and
who shall carry out his or her duties under the direction of the Harbor
Master.

   EMERGENCY. A state of imminent or proximate danger to life or
property in which time is of the essence.

   FAIRWAY. A specific water area to be kept free of obstructions to
ensure safe passage of recreational and commercial vessels to, from,
through and alongside navigation channels, mooring areas, anchorages and
berthing areas.

   FLOATING HOME (See also ABODE). Any structure constructed on a raft,
barge or hull, moored or docked in any water that is used primarily as
an abode.

   HARBOR MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT. A town account, within the town’s General
Fund, as authorized by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-113s into which shall be
deposited all fees for mooring and anchorage permits and other
activities within the scope of the harbor management plan and which
shall be used for the maintenance and improvement of the town harbor
management area for the public and for expenses for personnel and
equipment directly related to the function of the Harbor Management
Commission and the Harbor Master or Deputy Harbor Master.

   HARBOR MANAGEMENT ACT. The legislation contained within the Conn.
Gen. Stat. §§ 22a-113k through 22a-113t, as may be amended from time to
time, and which authorizes municipalities to establish harbor management
commissions and prepare harbor management plans.

   HARBOR MANAGEMENT AREA. The area of jurisdiction of the Town Harbor
Management Commission as defined in the harbor management plan and §
152.02.

   HARBOR MANAGEMENT COMMISSION. The duly appointed body of the town
with responsibilities for carrying out the harbor management plan as set
forth under the Harbor Management Act and any other duties granted by
state law and town ordinance including having charge of all
shellfisheries and shellfish grounds lying in the town not granted to
the Waterford-East Lyme Shellfish Commission and not under the
jurisdiction of the State Commissioner of Agriculture.

   HARBOR MANAGEMENT CONSISTENCY REVIEW PROCESS. The process authorized
by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-113p and described in the harbor management
plan whereby the Harbor Management Commission shall review for
consistency with the harbor management plan, specific development
proposals submitted to, or proposed by, town commissions and
departments, and state and federal agencies.

   HARBOR MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE. This chapter establishing rules and
regulations for the use and enjoyment of the town harbor management area
as recommended by the Town Harbor Management Commission and adopted by
the Town Board of Selectmen.

   HARBOR MANAGEMENT PLAN. A plan for the safe, beneficial and balanced
use of town’s harbor management area for recreational and other purposes
and for the protection of environmental resources as prepared by the
Harbor Management Commission, adopted by the Board of Selectmen and
approved by the Connecticut Commissioner of Energy and Environmental
Protection and the Connecticut Port Authority in accordance with Conn.
Gen. Stat. §§ 22a-113k through 22a-113t and §§ 152.20 through 152.22.

   HARBOR MASTER. The Harbor Master who is nominated by the Harbor
Management Commission for appointment by the Governor of Connecticut in
accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. §15-1, and who shall advise the Harbor
Management Commission with respect to matters concerning the waters
under the jurisdiction of the town, serve as an ex-officio member of the
Commission, have special responsibilities for implementing the harbor
management plan subject to the jurisdiction of the Harbor Management
Commission and conduct all of his or her duties in a manner consistent
with the plan.

   HAZARD TO NAVIGATION. An obstruction, usually sunken, that presents
sufficient danger to navigation so as to require expeditious,
affirmative action such as marking, removal or redefinition of a
designated waterway to provide for navigational safety.

   INDIVIDUAL-PRIVATE MOORING. A mooring belonging to an individual,
partnership or corporation and authorized for use by a mooring permit
issued by the Harbor Master. Individual-private moorings shall not be
leased or rented to a third party.

   INSPECTION SERVICE. Any person or business known to the Harbor Master
who has equipment and knowledge suitable for making mooring tackle
inspections.

   MARINE FACILITY. Any facility (including, but not limited to, docks,
floats, piers, ramps, hoists, parking areas, concessions and service
facilities), either publicly or privately owned, intended primarily to
be used by or for the service of vessels and located within the harbor
management area.

   MEAN HIGH WATER (MHW) LINE. The average height of the maximum
elevation reached by each rising tide over a 19-year period immediately
preceding the current year. Proposed work and structures seaward of the
MHW LINE are subject to federal regulatory authorities carried out by
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers as well as state regulatory
authorities. (State regulatory authorities also extend above the MHW
LINE to the high tide line which is defined by a higher elevation than
the MHW LINE.) All land and water areas seaward of the MHW LINE are
subject to the Public Trust Doctrine and held in trust by the state for
public use. The MHW LINE also marks the seaward boundary of the
jurisdiction of the town’s Planning and Zoning Commissions.

   MOOR. To secure a vessel to the bottom of a water body by the use of
mooring tackle.

   MOORING. A structure as defined in the most recent version of the
Office of Long Island Sound Programs General Permit for Harbor Moorings
GP-LIS-002.

   MOORING AREA. An area designated by the Harbor Management Commission,
and including special anchorage areas designated by the U.S. Coast
Guard, within which vessels may be moored provided a valid permit for
such mooring is obtained from the Harbor Master.

   MOORING LOCATION. A place where a buoyant vessel is permanently
secured to the bottom of a waterbody by mooring tackle and by permit
from the Harbor Master.

   MOORING TACKLE. The chain, anchor, buoys and other equipment used to
moor a vessel, including anchoring equipment commonly known as mushroom,
dead weight, pyramid or helical embedment anchors. Specifically excluded
from this definition are engine blocks and other devices which, when
used as anchors, could result in the degradation of water quality or
otherwise damage coastal resources.

   OBSTRUCTION TO NAVIGATION. Anything that restricts, endangers or
interferes with navigation.

   PERSONAL WATERCRAFT. As defined by state statute, any inboard powered
vessel less than 16 feet in length which has an internal combustion
engine powering a water-jet pump as its primary source of motor
propulsion and which is designed to be operated by a person sitting,
standing or kneeling on the vessel rather than the conventional matter
of sitting or standing inside the vessel.

   PERSONS. Those, including individuals, corporations, societies,
associations and partnerships, using the facilities and areas within the
harbor management area and subject to the provisions of this chapter.

   QUALIFIED INSPECTOR. Any person approved as an inspector of mooring
tackle by the Harbor Master.

   SHALL and MAY. SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.

   SLIP. Berthing space for a single vessel alongside a pier, finger
float or walkway.

   SPECIAL ANCHORAGE AREA. A water area designated by the Coast Guard,
identified on navigation charts, and where vessels may be anchored or
moored. Within such areas, vessels less than 65 feet are not required to
display anchorage lights.

   STATE. The State of Connecticut.

   STRAY VESSEL. An abandoned vessel, a vessel with unknown owner or a
vessel underway without a competent person in command.

   TRANSIENT ANCHORAGE. Any area reserved and designated in the harbor
management area for the exclusive short term use (not to exceed seven
consecutive days) of commercial and recreational vessels and any vessels
seeking emergency shelter.

   VESSEL. As defined by state statute, every description of watercraft,
other than a seaplane on water, used or capable of being used as a means
of transportation on water.

(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 20, page 144

§ 152.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS.

   (A)   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter and any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto shall be applicable, and shall
govern the use of the harbor management lands, waters and facilities
under the jurisdiction of the Town Harbor Management Commission. This
chapter shall be subordinate to all existing federal and state statutes
and regulations affecting the town harbor management area, and is not
intended to preempt any other valid laws.

   (B)   Invalidity of provisions. Should any provision or provisions of
this chapter be held invalid or inoperative, the remainder shall
continue in full force and effect.

   (C)   Authorities and enforcement.

      (1)    The Town Harbor Master or his or her designee, under the
direction of the Town Harbor Management Commission, shall have the
authority to carry out harbor management directives and enforce all
provisions of the harbor management plan, including this chapter to the
extent provided by and consistent with all other applicable laws,
regulations and ordinances, including the Connecticut General Statutes.

      (2)   The Harbor Master or his or her designee may cite any
alleged violators of this chapter. Any police officer or constable of
the town shall have authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter
and shall work cooperatively with the Harbor Master to achieve effective
enforcement of any orders by the Harbor Master pursuant to the
Connecticut General Statutes, including but not limited to orders
concerning the stationing of any vessel in the harbor management area.

   (D)   Harbor Management Account.

      (1)   As authorized by the Connecticut General Statutes, a Harbor
Management Account is hereby created in the town’s General Fund to
receive and expend monies for harbor management purposes determined by
the Harbor Management Commission. All revenues generated by the
following shall be deposited into this account:

         (a)   Mooring permits;

         (b)   Fines levied under the provisions of this chapter as it
applies to the harbor management area; and

         (c)   Fees generated by designation of oyster, clam and
shellfish beds pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 26-240 et seq.

      (2)   Other funds generated or allocated specifically for harbor
management shall also be deposited in this account. Funds shall be
disbursed for purposes directly associated with the management of the
town’s harbor management area and implementation of the town harbor
management plan. Monies from this account may be allocated to the Harbor
Master or his or her designee for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of the town harbor management plan and/or this chapter.

   (E)   Compensation of harbor personnel. The Harbor Master, Deputy
Harbor Master and administrative personnel may receive compensation to
be determined by the Harbor Management Commission. Additionally, monies
from the Harbor Management Account may be used to reimburse the Harbor
Master, Deputy Harbor Master and administrative personnel for necessary
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. Monies from this
account may also be used to compensate contractors hired to perform work
as may be deemed necessary by the Harbor Management Commission or the
Harbor Master.

   (F)   Coordination with other governmental laws and regulations.
Nothing hereon contained shall bar or prevent the Harbor Master or
Deputy Harbor Master from performing those duties which have been
assigned to them under the General Statutes of the state.

(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 20, page 144

§ 152.05 USE OF THE HARBOR MANAGEMENT AREA.

   (A)    Vessel speed and wake.

      (1)   The operation of any vessel, including personal watercraft,
within the town harbor management area shall proceed in a manner which
protects all persons and property from any damage caused by a wake.

      (2)   In no event shall any vessel under power exceed a speed
limit of six mph within:

         (a)   The federal navigation channel;

         (b)   Two hundred feet of shore in the Upper Niantic River
north of the federal navigation channel;

         (c)   The Pattagansett River Estuary Restricted Speed Area as
marked by state speed limit signs; and

         (d)   One hundred feet of shore or any dock, pier, float or
anchored or moored vessel in any other part of the harbor management
area.

   (B)   Obstruction of channels, fairways and berthing space. No vessel
shall be moored or anchored so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use of any channel, fairway or berthing space within the
harbor management area.

   (C)   Swimming and underwater diving. Swimming and underwater diving
are prohibited in all designated channels except in an emergency or for
inspection purposes.

   (D)   Fishing. Fishing from vessels and shellfishing shall not occur
in any designated channels, fairways and anchorages in a manner that
poses a hazard to navigation. The placement of lobster pot floats and
fixed fishing nets is prohibited in all channels marked by U.S. Coast
Guard channel markers, within any fairway as designated in the harbor
management plan and within any mooring area designated in the harbor
management plan.

   (E)   Waterskiing. Waterskiing is prohibited in all designated
channels, and in anchorages and mooring areas in the harbor management
area when vessels are anchored or moored therein. Waterskiing is
prohibited within 200 feet of shore in the Upper Niantic River north of
the federal navigation channel, within the Pattagansett River Restricted
Speed Area as marked by state speed limit signs and within 100 feet of
shore or any dock, pier, float or anchored or moored vessel in any other
part of the harbor management area.

   (F)   Personal watercraft. Use of personal watercraft shall be in
accordance with all applicable statutes and regulations concerning the
operation of vessels. Use of personal watercraft is prohibited in all
designated channels except as necessary to reach personal watercraft
activity areas, and within designated anchorages and mooring areas when
vessels are anchored or moored therein.

   (G)   Board sailing and paddle boarding. Board sailing and paddle
boarding are prohibited within designated channels, except as necessary
to cross said channels in a manner that does not pose a hazard or
inconvenience to navigation.

   (H)   Public docks and boat launch ramps. The use of any public dock
and boat launch ramps shall be in accordance with rules and regulations
established by the Harbor Management Commission. No vessel shall remain
at a public dock or boat launch ramp for a period longer than the time
limit posted at the dock. If a vessel is left unattended for a period of
time in violation of the posted limit, then the vessel’s owner of record
shall be held responsible.

   (I)   Use of vessels as abodes or floating homes. The use of any
floating structure in the town harbor management area as an abode or
floating home is prohibited. Living aboard vessels is allowed on a
seasonal basis as a secondary use to the vessel’s principal
water-dependent use.

   (J)   Identification of vessels. All vessels moored, or tied up to
wharves, piers or docks in the harbor management area shall display a
valid federal documentation name or state registry number legible
without boarding the vessel in accordance with Connecticut General
Statutes.

   (K)   Derelict or abandoned vessels and structures. No vessel,
mooring tackle, mooring float or other object within the harbor
management area shall be abandoned or sunk or placed where it may
constitute a danger to navigation or to the safety of persons or
property or where it may prevent optimum use of the area. Any vessel,
mooring tackle or other object abandoned or sunk or so placed may be
removed or relocated by direction of the Harbor Master, if corrective
action is not taken by the owner, if known, within seven days after
notification, or, if not known, after notice has been posted for that
period on the vessel, mooring or object. Nothing herein contained shall
prevent the Harbor Master or his designee from taking measures without
notice, if, in his judgment, it is necessary in order to provide for the
safety of persons or property. The expense of such removal or relocation
and any liability arising from injury to person or property incurred
thereby shall be the responsibility of the owner of record.

(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 20, page 144

§ 152.06 MOORING AND ANCHORING VESSELS.

   (A)   Mooring permits required.

      (1)    In accordance with state law and the town harbor management
plan, and in order to provide for adequate access for vessels, for the
safety of persons and property, for the protection of coastal resources
and for the optimum use of the town’s harbor management area, no vessel
shall be moored in the harbor management area without a valid permit
from the Harbor Master. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to moor any vessel or place any mooring tackle in the harbor
management area without a permit from the Harbor Master.

      (2)   No provision contained in this section shall limit the
powers of the Harbor Master to station and remove vessels as provided in
the Connecticut General Statutes.

   (B)   Rules, regulations and administrative procedures. The mooring
and anchoring of all vessels in the harbor management area shall be in
accordance with any rules, regulations and administrative procedures
adopted by the Harbor Management Commission.

   (C)   Mooring records.

      (1)   The Harbor Master shall keep detailed records of all mooring
permits, moored vessels and a list of any persons waiting for a mooring
location. Such records shall include information satisfactory to the
Harbor Management Commission.

      (2)   A list of current mooring assignments and a list of any
persons waiting for a mooring permit/location in the harbor management
area shall be maintained by the Harbor Master. The Harbor Master shall
provide annually a copy of said lists to the Secretary of the Harbor
Management Commission not later than September 30 of each year and said
lists shall be made available for public review upon request in a public
place during regular business hours.

   (D)   Allocation of moorings.

      (1)   In allocating mooring locations, the Harbor Master shall
give first priority to those persons applying for the renewal of permits
granted in the preceding year, second priority to relocation requests in
order of application and third priority to new applicants in order of
application.

      (2)   In allocating mooring locations, the Harbor Master shall, to
the extent possible, assign priority for mooring allocations to
shorefront property owners who apply for mooring locations offshore of
their property.

      (3)   Within the limits of type and size of vessels, available
mooring locations shall be offered to the senior applicant on the
mooring waiting list, subject to the requirements of this chapter. If an
available mooring location is not suitable to accommodate the senior
applicant’s vessel or specific needs, it shall be offered to the next
senior qualified applicant. The senior applicant shall retain his or her
place on the waiting list in this case. The Harbor Master shall continue
efforts to provide a suitable mooring location for the senior applicant.
If the senior applicant refuses a mooring location which is suitable for
his or her vessel in the opinion of the Harbor Master, that applicant
shall be moved to the bottom of the waiting list.

      (4)   No one individual shall be allocated more than one mooring
location and no one household, partnership or corporation shall be
allocated more than two mooring locations without annual written
permission from the Harbor Management Commission. Only one mooring space
shall be allocated to any one vessel.

      (5)   Mooring permits shall be issued by the Harbor Master only to
those applicants owning a vessel properly registered in accordance with
laws of the state.

   (E)   Application for mooring permit.

      (1)   Any person, including associations, corporations or other
group, may apply for a mooring permit by completing in full the
application provided for that purpose and submitting the completed
application and all required documents and fees to the Harbor Master.

      (2)   The Harbor Master shall accept new applications at any time
for consideration.

   (F)   Mooring permits valid for one year only. Any mooring permits
granted by the Harbor Master shall be consistent with the town harbor
management plan and shall expire on December 31 next following its
issuance.

   (G)   Renewal of mooring permits. The Harbor Master shall notify all
current mooring permit holders of the requirements for mooring permit
renewal. All completed renewal applications and required documents and
fees shall be due on or before March 1 of each year. Renewal
applications submitted after March 31 shall be subject to a late fee
equal to and in addition to the annual permit fee.

   (H)   Annual mooring permit fee. All applications for mooring permits
shall be accompanied by an appropriate fee (not to exceed the maximum
amount authorized by the Connecticut General Statutes) as may be
established by the Harbor Management Commission and adopted by the Board
of Selectmen. Said fee, payable to the Town of East Lyme, shall
accompany the applications. In the event an application is not approved
or the applicant is placed on a waiting list, the fee shall be returned
to the applicant within 30 days after notice of denial or placement of
the applicant on a waiting list. All fees collected pursuant to this
section shall be deposited in the town’s Harbor Management Account and
shall be used exclusively for maintenance and improvement of the harbor
management area for the public and for expenses for personnel and
equipment directly related to the function of the Harbor Management
Commission and the Harbor Master or Deputy Harbor Master.

   (I)   Mooring permits non-transferable.

      (1)   No transferable rights shall be conferred as the result of
the approval of a mooring location. Whenever the holder of a mooring
permit sells or otherwise parts with possession of the mooring tackle
identified in the mooring permit any arrangement whatsoever, the mooring
permit shall expire. The new possessor, transferee or owner shall have
no right to use the mooring space covered by the mooring permit but may
apply for a new permit in his or her own name.

      (2)   If a mooring permit holder sells or otherwise parts with
possession of the vessel identified in the mooring permit application,
he or she may, upon approval by the Harbor Master, retain the mooring
location assigned under the mooring permit provided that another vessel
owned by the permittee is moved onto the mooring within 30 days (unless
the period is extended by the Harbor Master because of special
circumstances such as seasonal constraints). If the replacement vessel
is significantly smaller, larger or of different draft or type, the
Harbor Master shall have the right to relocate the vessel to another,
more suitable mooring if one is available.

   (J)   Transient anchoring.

      (1)   The Harbor Management Commission may designate transient
anchorage areas free from the placement of any moorings. These areas,
reserved for the exclusive, short-term use of recreational vessels shall
be available on a first-come, first-served basis for a period not to
exceed seven consecutive days nor for a total or more than 14 days in
any calendar year unless expressly approved by the Harbor Master.

      (2)   The Harbor Master may require any person anchoring in the
harbor management area to display for inspection for anchors, chains and
other equipment used at such anchoring for soundness of condition.

   (K)   Abandonment of mooring. Any mooring tackle left unused for more
than one calendar year without written permission of the Harbor
Management Commission may be considered abandoned and subject to removal
or relocation by the Harbor Master at the expense of the last permitted
owner.

   (L)   Secure berthing and anchoring of vessels.

      (1)   The owner of any vessel moored or anchored within the harbor
management area shall be responsible for causing such vessel to be tied
and secured or anchored with proper care and equipment and in such
manner as may be required to prevent breakaway and resulting damage, and
shall thereafter provide for periodic inspection of the mooring tackle
or anchoring equipment as the Harbor Master deems necessary. Each vessel
owner is deemed to be the owner of the mooring tackle he or she uses.

      (2)   The owner of any vessel moored within the harbor management
area shall agree to indemnify and hold harmless the town and its
officers, agencies, agents and employees for any and all claims, damages
or losses of any kind, including legal costs arising out of use of the
mooring location assigned to that owner.

      (3)   All mooring permit holders shall comply with required
minimum standards for mooring tackle provided by the Harbor Management
Commission and shall recognize that minimum standards may not guarantee
safety under all conditions. Storms, wind, waves, tides, currents and
surge shall be considered when selecting appropriate mooring tackle for
each vessel. Any person mooring a vessel within the town harbor
management area is responsible for damage to that vessel or to any other
vessel or property caused by the failure of the mooring tackle.

   (M)   Mooring inspection.

      (1)   Mooring tackle shall be inspected by the Harbor Master or an
approved inspection service at least once every three years to determine
soundness of condition. An inspection verification form provided by the
Harbor Management Commission shall be completed by the inspector and
filed with the Harbor Master to document each required inspection.

      (2)   If it shall be determined that any piece of mooring tackle
has become unsafe or otherwise inadequate, such piece shall be replaced
accordingly. Failure to make such replacement shall be grounds for
revocation of the mooring permit.

   (N)   Marking and identification of approved moorings. All mooring
buoys shall be white with a horizontal blue band around the
circumference of the buoy centered midway between the top of the buoy
and the waterline in accordance with federal and state regulations. The
Harbor Management Commission may require additional marking for
identification purposes of all approved mooring buoys.

   (P)   Relocation and removal of mooring tackle.

      (1)   The Harbor Master may require any mooring or vessel to be
moved to a new location whenever, in his or her judgment, the safety of
any other vessels or optimum use of the mooring area so requires.

      (2)   If directions given by the Harbor Master with respect to
removing unauthorized moorings, changing the location of existing
moorings or replacing mooring tackle determined to be inadequate are not
taken by the owner, if known, within seven days after notification, or,
if not known, after notice has been posted for that period on the vessel
or mooring, the Harbor Master may cause such moorings to be removed or
changed or may drop the same to the bottom. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Harbor Master or his or her designee from taking
measures with or without notice, if, in his or her judgment, it is
necessary in order to provide for the safety of persons or property. The
expense of such mooring removal or relocation and any liability arising
from injury to person or property incurred thereby shall be the
responsibility of the mooring permit holder.

      (3)   Any mooring tackle removed from the harbor management area
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be held at the
direction of the Harbor Master for a period of 30 days from the date of
removal. A reasonable effort shall be made to contact the owner of the
mooring tackle, if known, by telephone, email, letter or any other
reasonable means in order to provide an opportunity for the owner to
claim the mooring tackle upon payment of the expense of removal and any
applicable mooring permit fees. If the owner of the mooring tackle
cannot be identified, does not respond to the contact attempts or
refuses to pay the reclamation cost and required permit fees within the
30-day period, the mooring tackle owner will be presumed to have
relinquished ownership and the Harbor Master may dispose of the removed
tackle at the Harbor Master's discretion.

   (P)   Designation of channels or fairways to be kept free of
moorings. For the purpose of this section, and in order to provide safe
navigation access to all parts of the harbor management area, the Harbor
Management Commission, with the advice of the Harbor Master, is
empowered to designate the location of channels or fairways within which
approved moorings shall not be located, and to make changes in such
designations where conditions or needs require.

   (Q)   Suspension of requirements and imposition of emergency
requirements. In order to most effectively respond to any emergency as
may be caused by a severe storm or other natural or man-made conditions,
the Harbor Master is empowered to suspend the requirements of this
section and/or impose additional requirements in the interest of public
safety.

(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019) Penalty, see § 152.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 20, page 144

§ 152.07 MARINE SANITATION.

   (A)   Littering and discharge of pollutants prohibited. No person
shall place, throw, deposit or discharge or cause to be placed, thrown,
deposited or discharged into the harbor management area any litter or
other materials, including, but not limited to, any refuse or waste
matter, sewage petroleum products or by-products, paint, varnish, dead
animals or debris of any kind which renders the waters unsightly,
noxious, unwholesome or otherwise detrimental to the public health or
welfare or to the enjoyment of the water for recreational purposes.
Applicable provisions of the Connecticut General Statutes shall be
strictly enforced with respect to discharge of refuse in the harbor
management area.

   (B)   Marine toilets. Pursuant to the designation of all Connecticut
waters as a "no discharge" area pursuant to the federal Clean Water Act,
no person shall discharge sewage from a vessel at any time into the
harbor management area. All discharge requirements set forth in state
and federal laws and regulations shall be strictly enforced.

   (C)   Responsibility for sanitation of facilities. The owner, lessee,
agent, manager or person in charge of any waterfront development or
facility adjacent to the harbor management area shall at all times,
maintain the premises under his or her charge in a clean, sanitary
condition, free from malodorous materials and accumulations of garbage,
refuse, debris and other waste materials.

(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019) Penalty, see § 152.99

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 20, page 144

HARBOR MANAGEMENT COMMISSION

§ 152.20 ESTABLISHMENT, JURISDICTION AND MEMBERSHIP.

   (A)   Establishment of the Harbor Management Commission. There is an
existing seven member Harbor Management Commission established by an
ordinance dated June 14, 1986 and re-established by an ordinance
effective May 4, 1994 which shall continue to have the powers and duties
conferred on such commissions by Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 444a, Revision
of 1958, as amended, and the Harbor Management Commission shall continue
as the East Lyme Shellfish Commission and shall continue to have all of
the authority and responsibility granted to local shellfish commissions
by Conn. Gen. Stat. Chapter 492, Revision of 1958, as amended, except to
the extent that the Waterford-East Lyme Shellfish Commission has been
granted powers and duties by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 26-287.

   (B)   Jurisdiction. The Commission shall continue to have
jurisdiction over the navigable waters as defined in Conn. Gen. Stat. §
15-3a(b), within the town harbor management area as defined in § 152.02.
The Commission shall continue to have charge of all the shellfisheries
and shellfish grounds lying in the town not granted to the
Waterford-East Lyme Shellfish Commission by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 26-287,
Revision of 1958, as amended, and not under the jurisdiction of the
Commissioner of Agriculture, including all river, inland waters and
flats adjacent to all beaches and waters within the limits and marine
bounds (below the mean high water line) of the town.

   (C)   Membership and terms of service. The members of the Harbor
Management Commission shall continue to be appointed by the Board of
Selectmen in the following manner: four terms were filled by appointment
for four-year terms until the first Monday of January, 2020, and three
for terms to expire on the first Monday of January, 2022, at which time
they will continue to be filled by appointment for terms of four years.
Vacancies shall be filled by the Board of Selectmen in accordance with
Chapter 4 of the Charter. The Harbor Master shall continue to be a
non-voting ex officio member of the Commission, and if there shall be a
vacancy in the office of the Harbor Master, the Deputy Harbor Master
shall so serve until the vacancy is filled.

(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 20, page 144

§ 152.21 POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.

   (A)   Rules and regulations. The Commission may adopt and publish
such rules and regulations as may be required to implement its
responsibilities as herein provided, including but not limited to
responsibilities for managing the mooring and anchoring of all vessels
in the harbor management area.

      (1)   Prior to adopting any such rules and regulations, the
Commission shall conduct a public hearing for the purpose of considering
their adoption. Notice of the time and place of such public hearing,
which notice shall include the title and summary of the rules or
regulations proposed, shall be published twice in a local newspaper
having substantial circulation in the town at least five days, but not
more than 15 days, prior to the date of said hearing. A copy of the full
text of the proposed regulation or rules shall be filed in the office of
the Town Clerk for public inspection at least ten days prior to such
hearing.

      (2)   Following such public hearing, the Commission shall act upon
such rules and may make such changes or alterations in the form or
content of the proposed rules or regulations as seen appropriate or
necessary as a result of the public hearing held in connection
therewith. Such changes, additions or alterations shall not require
further public notice.

      (3)   Such rules, if adopted by the Commission and after approval
by the Board of Selectmen of the town, shall become effective after
publication once in a local newspaper having substantial circulation in
the town within 21 days following Board of Selectmen approval.

   (B)   Harbor management plan. The Harbor Management Commission shall
implement the town harbor management plan as amended in 2019 and adopted
by the Harbor Management Commission and Board of Selectmen on September
4, 2019 and effective ten days after the publication of the notice of
the adoption of this chapter, and approved by the state in accordance
with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-113m. The Commission shall provide for
review of the plan and shall make any additions and/or modifications to
the plan that may be deemed appropriate subject to the process set forth
in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 22a-113m through 22a-113o or other subsequent
harbor management legislation enacted by the Connecticut General
Assembly.

   (C)   Harbor management chapter. The Commission shall review town
ordinances affecting harbor management and recommend any necessary
changes. The Commission shall submit recommendations for ordinances
required to implement the harbor management plan to the Board of
Selectmen for adoption.

   (D)   Review of development proposals. The Commission shall have the
authority to review and make recommendations on proposals affecting real
property on, in or contiguous to the town’s harbor management area as
submitted to or proposed by any commission or department of the town and
any agency of the state or federal government. Such review shall be in
accordance with requirements set forth in this chapter and in state and
federal laws, regulations and other requirements, including but not
limited to the harbor management provisions of the Connecticut General
Statutes.

   (E)   Operating budget. The Commission shall prepare and present to
the Board of Selectmen an annual operating budget. The operating budget
shall include a section reflecting estimated revenues and a section
covering requested expenses by project or activity.

(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 20, page 144

§ 152.22 CONSULTATION AND COORDINATION WITH OTHER TOWN BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS AND STATE AND FEDERAL AGENCIES.

   (A)   Harbor management plan consistency review. A town “harbor
management consistency review” process shall be carried out by the
Harbor Management Commission to ensure effective implementation of the
harbor management plan and to provide coordinated, efficient and
comprehensive review of the proposed projects and activities affecting
the harbor management area.

   (B)   Coordinating with other town boards and commissions. As
authorized by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-113p, the Harbor Management
Commission may review, and make recommendations consistent with the
harbor management plan, on any proposal affecting the real property on,
in or contiguous to the harbor management area as submitted to, or
proposed by, all other town commissions and departments, including, but
not limited to:

      (1)   Planning Commission;

      (2)   Zoning Commission;

      (3)   Zoning Board of Appeals;

      (4)   Water and Sewer Commission;

      (5)   Department of Public Works;

      (6)   Parks and Recreation Commission;

      (7)   Economic Development Commission; and

      (8)   Conservation Commission.

   (C)   Proposals subject to consistency review. The Harbor Management
Commission may review for consistency with the harbor management plan:

      (1)   All development proposals subject to the town’s coastal site
plan review process and located on parcels contiguous to the harbor
management area, with the exception of one- and two-family dwellings;

      (2)   All proposed uses or activities occurring waterward of the
coastal jurisdictional line, including, but not limited to, proposed
uses or activities subject to state and federal coastal regulatory
programs; and

      (3)   All proposed revisions and amendments to town plans, rules
and regulations affecting the harbor management area and real property
on, in or contiguous to the harbor management area, including, but not
limited to, proposed revisions and amendments to the zoning regulations
and plan of conservation and development, regulations for use of the
town beaches and boat launching facilities, and regulations governing
tidal wetlands and flood and erosion control.

   (D)   Referral schedule. 

      (1)   The town boards and commissions identified in division (B)
above shall send to the Harbor Management Commission a copy of any
proposal subject to the harbor management consistency review process at
the request of the Commission. The Commission shall be notified of any
such proposal at least 35 days prior to the commencement of any hearings
thereon or, where no hearing is held, at least 35 days prior to the
taking of any final action on the proposal.

      (2)   Review of applications to state and federal governmental
agencies shall be in accordance with the schedules set forth in the
applicable state and federal regulatory programs.

   (E)   Determination of consistency. The Harbor Management Commission
shall determine the consistency of proposed projects with the harbor
management plan and make recommendations to the appropriate board or
commission, or state or federal agency. The local agency authorized to
act on the proposal shall consider the recommendations of the
Commission. A two-thirds vote of all the members of the local agency
having authority to act on the proposal shall be required to approve a
proposal which has not received a favorable recommendation from the
Commission, provided that the provisions of this section shall not be
deemed to alter the authority of the agency having primary jurisdiction
over the proposal to deny, modify or condition the proposal. Failure of
the Commission to submit a recommendation to another town agency acting
on a proposal affecting the real property on, in or contiguous to the
harbor management area shall be deemed to be approval of the proposal.

(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 20, page 144

§ 152.99 PENALTY.

   (A)    Any person who violates any section of this chapter in any
portion of the harbor management area shall be liable to a fine of $50
for each offense. Each day that a violation continues after seven days
following notification of the offending party or, if the offending party
is not known, after notice has been posted for that time on any vessel,
mooring tackle or other object that is the cause of the violation, shall
be considered a separate offense. The provisions of this division (B)
are in addition to and do not supersede any penalties resulting from
simultaneous violations of state or federal laws. Fines levied under the
provisions of this chapter shall be collected by the town and deposited
into the town Harbor Management Account, as set forth in § 152.04(D).

   (B)   Any person who obstructs, resists or willfully refuses to obey
the order of the Harbor Master or Deputy Harbor Master for the
stationing of a vessel in accordance with this chapter shall be subject
to the fines and penalties set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 15-8 and
other applicable sections of the Connecticut General Statutes,
enforceable by any duly authorized police officer of the town.

   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter relating to
mooring permits may, after due notice, result in revocation of the
mooring permit by the Harbor Master. Any party aggrieved by any decision
pertaining to an action by the Harbor Master may submit a request in
writing to the Harbor Management Commission to review that decision with
respect to this chapter and the harbor management plan. Such request
shall be submitted within 30 days of the date of the decision. The
Commission shall review the decision and render a finding on the matter
within 60 days of receipt of the aggrieved party's written request.

(Ord. passed 5-4-1994; Ord. passed 9-4-2019)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 20, page 144

CHAPTER 153: INLAND WETLANDS AND WATERCOURSES

Section

   153.01   Inland Wetlands Agency established

   153.02   Fees for Inland Wetlands Agency

   153.03   Fines for violation of inland wetlands and watercourses
regulations

§ 153.01 INLAND WETLANDS AGENCY ESTABLISHED.

   (A)   Whereas clauses:

      (1)   WHEREAS, by an ordinance adopted on June 20, 1966 entitled
“Ordinance Establishing a Conservation Commission for the Development
and Conservation of Natural Resources, including Water Resources, Within
East Lyme” the town created a Conservation Commission with the powers
and duties of conservation commissions as set forth in the General
Statutes; and

      (2)   WHEREAS, by an ordinance adopted on April 24, 1975 entitled
“Ordinance Concerning Inland Wetlands and Watercourses” the town
designated the Conservation Commission as its inland wetlands agency,
and authorized it to exercise the powers and duties of inland wetlands
agencies as set forth in the General Statutes; and

      (3)   WHEREAS, the volume of business regarding the Commission’s
duties as the town’s inland wetlands agency has become such that it is
burdensome for the Commission to attend to its duties as the town’s
Conservation Commission; and

      (4)   WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable that the Commission
continue to exercise its powers and duties as the town’s inland wetlands
agency, and that the Commission’s powers and duties of the town’s
Conservation Commission be assigned to another commission.

   (B)   The name of the Conservation Commission is hereby changed to
the Inland Wetlands Agency.

   (C)   The Inland Wetlands Agency shall continue to act as the town’s
designated and authorized inland wetlands agency, with all the
authority, powers and responsibilities of local inland wetlands agencies
set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§22a-42 et seq., as amended from time to
time. All regulations heretofore adopted by the Conservation Commission
shall remain in full force and effect. All matters pending before the
Conservation Commission on the effective date of this amendment
including, but not limited to, applications, permits, hearings
investigations, enforcement actions and open or pending items of
business of any nature whatsoever shall continue to be pending before
and administered by the Inland Wetlands Agency.

   (D)   (1)   Effective July 1, 1966 there is constituted a seven
member Inland Wetlands Agency (fka Conservation Commission) which shall
have the duties and powers set forth in the General Statutes.

      (2)   Members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Board of
Selectmen. The Board of Selectmen may consult with local and regional
organizations interested in conservation of natural resources at the
time of making original appointments and filling vacancies.

      (3)   The members of the Commission shall be appointed in the
following manner: four terms shall be filled by appointment to expire on
the first Monday of January, 1968 and three terms shall be filled by
appointment to expire on the first Monday of January, 1970. The four
terms that expire in January, 1968 shall be filled by appointment for
four years. The three terms that expire in January, 1970 shall be filled
by appointment for four years.

   (E)   (1)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Public Act 79-84 of
the General Assembly, and in accordance with Chapter 4 of the Charter,
there shall be three alternate members of the Inland Wetlands Agency
appointed by the Board of Selectmen.

      (2)   Two terms shall be filled by appointment until the first
Monday of January, 1982, at which time they shall be filled by
appointment for four years. One term shall be filled by appointment
until the first Monday of January, 1984, at which time it shall be
filled by appointment for four years. Upon their expiration, all terms
shall be filled by appointment for four years.

(Ord. passed 6-20-1966; Ord. passed 4-24-1975; Ord. passed 12-11-1979;
Ord. passed 5-15-2008)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 9, page 233;    TM Volume 22, page 787, Amended; See Page
92: Alternates to Conservation Commission

   TM Volume 22 page 787; TM Volume 11, pages 135, 145; TM Volume 12,
page 95, Amended

   TM Volume 13, page 326

§ 153.02 FEES FOR INLAND WETLANDS AGENCY.

   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-1C,
Revision of 1958, the following schedule of fees recommended by the
Inland Wetlands Agency is established.

Application fee **

   Commercial uses

$400

      Plus fee from Schedule A

   Residential uses

$150 plus* $50/lot

      Plus fee from Schedule A

   All other uses

$200

      Plus fee from Schedule A

   *Each lot with regulated activities

   **$30 fee required by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-27j will be added to the
base fees

Appeal of duly authorized agent decision

$300

Approval by duly authorized agent **

$100

Complex application fee

Actual cost

   The Inland Wetlands Agency may charge an additional fee sufficient to
cover the cost of reviewing and acting on complex applications. Such fee
may include, but not be limited to, the cost of retaining experts, to
advise, analyze, review and report on issues requiring such experts. The
Agency or the duly authorized agent shall estimate the complex
application fee, which shall be paid pursuant to § 19.1 of the Inland
Wetland and Watercourses regulations within 10 days of the applicant’s
receipt or notice of such estimate. Any portion of the complex
application fee in excess of the actual cost shall be refunded to the
applicant no later than 30 days after publication of the agency’s
decision.

Modification of previous approval

$100

Monitoring compliance fee

$100

Permitted and nonregulated uses

   Permitted uses as of right

$0

   Nonregulated

$0

Public hearing fee

 

   Single residential

$200

   Commercial/industrial/multi-family

$450

Regulation amendment petitions (does not include notices or regulation
advisories from DEP)

$500

   Map amendment petitions

$500

      Plus fee from Schedule B

Renewal of previous approval

$100

Significant activity fee

$300

 

Schedule A

For the purpose of calculating the permit application fee, the area in
Schedule A is the total area of wetlands and watercourses and the upland
review area upon which a regulated activity is proposed

Square Feet of Area

Less than 1,000

$0

1,000 to 5,000

$250

More than 5,000

$750

 

Schedule B

For the purpose of calculating the map amendment petition fee, linear
feet in Schedule B is the total length of wetlands and watercourses
boundary subject to the proposed boundary change

Linear Feet

 

Less than 500

$0

500 to 1,000

$250

More than 1,000

$750

 

   (B)   Fees shall be payable at the time an application is submitted,
except as otherwise provided.

(Ord. passed 6-4-1988; Ord. passed 3-30-1989; Ord. passed 1-18-1995;
Ord. passed 11-9-2001; Ord. passed 2-23-2003; Ord. passed 2-10-2004;
Ord. passed 11-17-2004; Ord. passed 5-16-2007; Ord. passed 6-19-2008;
Ord. effective 7-1-2011)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 16, page 213; TM Volume 16, page 353, amended; TM Volume
21, page 6, Amended; TM Volume 21, page 626, Amended; TM Volume 22, page
113, Amended; TM Volume 22, page 247; TM Volume 22, page 345, Amended
fees; TM Volume 22, page 455; Amended; TM Volume 22, page 674, Amended;
TM Volume 22, page 789, Amended

   TM Volume 21, page 2

§ 153.03 FINES FOR VIOLATION OF INLAND WETLANDS AND WATERCOURSES
REGULATIONS.

   (A)   Citations. Pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-42g, as amended,
the Inland Wetlands Agency is hereby authorized to issue citations for
violations of the inland wetlands and watercourses regulations of the
Agency.

   (B)   Fines; schedule of fines.

      (1)   A fine for each violation shall not exceed $1,000. Such
fines, when paid, shall be paid to the Treasurer of the town and
deposited in the General Fund or a special fund designated by the town.
No such fine may be levied against the state or any employee of the
state acting within the scope of his or her employment.

      (2)   Fines for each citation shall be in accordance with the
following schedule:

 

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------
  Nature of Violation                                                                                                                                                                                  Fine
  Regulated activities conducted without a permit in the upland review area (within 100 ft. of a wetland or watercourse)                                                                               $500
  Regulated activities conducted without a permit in a wetland or watercourse                                                                                                                          $1,000
  Regulated activities conducted without a permit that under § 12 of the Inland Wetland and Watercourses regulations would have been eligible for an administrative approval from the wetlands agent   $15
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------

 

   (C)   Who may issue citations. Citations made pursuant to this
section may be issued by a police officer or by any other person
authorized by the First Selectman to do so.

   (D)   Manner of service. A citation issued pursuant to this section
may be served by hand delivery or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the person named in the citation. If the person named in
the citation refuses to accept the citation sent by certified mail, the
citation may be sent by regular United States mail.

   (E)   Payment of fines. A person who receives a citation may make
uncontested payment of the imposed fine within 30 days of receipt of the
citation. If the citation has been sent by regular mail, the date of
receipt shall be the third business day following the date of the
citation.

   (F)   Hearing procedure.

      (1)   Any person issued a citation under this section shall be
entitled to a hearing. The procedure for the hearing, disposition and
enforcement shall be in accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-152c
entitled “Hearing Procedure for Citations,” as it may be amended from
time to time and as set forth herein.

      (2)   The First Selectman shall appoint one or more Citation
Hearing Officers to conduct the hearings held pursuant to this section.
A Citation Hearing Officer shall not be a police officer or a town
employee or a member of the Inland Wetlands Agency.

      (3)   (a)   At any time within the 12 months of the expiration of
the time period for the payment of uncontested fines, penalties, costs
or fees assessed under this section the town shall send a notice to the
person cited.

         (b)   The notice shall inform the person cited:

            1.   Of the allegations against him or her and the amount of
the fines;

            2.   That he or she may contest his or her liability before
a Citation Hearing Officer by delivering in person or by mail written
notice within ten days of the date thereof;

            3.   That if he or she does not demand such a hearing, an
assessment and judgment shall be entered against him or her; and

            4.   That such judgment may enter without further notice.

      (4)   If the person who is sent notice pursuant to division (F)(3)
above wishes to admit liability for an alleged violation, he or she may,
without requesting a hearing, pay the full amount of the fine in person
or by mail to an official designated by the town. Such payment shall be
inadmissable in any proceeding, civil or criminal, to establish the
conduct of such person or other person making the payment. Any person
who does not deliver or mail written demand for a hearing within ten
days of the date of the first notice provided for in division (F)(3)
above shall be deemed to have admitted liability, and the designated
municipal official shall certify such person’s failure to respond to the
Citation Hearing Officer. The Citation Hearing Officer shall thereupon
enter and assess the fines, penalties, costs or fees provided for by
this section and shall follow the procedures set forth in division
(F)(6) below.

      (5)   Any person who requests a hearing shall be given written
notice of the date, time and place for the hearing. Such hearing shall
be held not less than 15 days and not more than 30 days from the date of
the mailing of notice, provided the Hearing Officer shall grant upon
good cause shown any reasonable request by an interested party for
postponement or continuance. An original or certified copy of the
initial notice of violation issued by the issuing official or police
officer shall be filed and retained by the municipality, and shall be
deemed a business record within the scope of Conn. Gen. Stat. § 52-180
and evidence of the facts contained therein. The presence of the issuing
official or police officer shall be required at the hearing if such
person so requests. A person wishing to contest his or her liability
shall appear at the hearing and may present evidence on his or her
behalf. A designated municipal official, other than the Citation Hearing
Officer, may present evidence on behalf of the town. If such person
fails to appear, the Citation Hearing Officer may enter an assessment by
default against him or her upon a finding of proper notice and liability
under the applicable provisions of the inland wetlands and watercourses
regulations and this ordinance. The Citation Hearing Officer may accept
from the person who received the citation copies of police reports,
investigatory and citation reports, and other official documents by mail
and may determine thereby that the appearance of such person is
unnecessary. The Citation Hearing Officer shall conduct the hearing in
the order and form and with such methods of proof as he or she deems
fair and appropriate. The rules regarding the admissibility of evidence
shall not be strictly applied, but all testimony shall be given under
oath or affirmation. The Citation Hearing Officer shall announce his or
her decision at the end of the hearing. If he or she determines that the
person is not liable, he or she shall dismiss the matter and enter his
or her decision in writing accordingly. If he or she determines that the
person is liable for the violation, he or she shall forthwith enter and
assess the fines against such person as provided by this section.

      (6)   If such assessment is not paid on the date of its entry, the
Citation Hearing Officer shall send by first class mail a notice of the
assessment to the person found liable and shall file, not less than 30
days nor more than 12 months after such mailing, a certified copy of the
notice of assessment with the Clerk of the Superior Court for
Geographical Area Number 10 together with an entry fee of $8. The
certified copy of the notice of assessment shall constitute a record of
assessment. Within such 12-month period, assessments against the same
person may be accrued and filed as one record of assessment and court
costs of $8, against such person in favor of the town. Notwithstanding
any other provision of the General Statutes, the Hearing Officer’s
assessment, when so entered as judgment shall have the effect of a civil
money judgment and a levy of execution on such judgment may issue
without further notice to such person.

      (7)   A person against whom an assessment has been entered
pursuant to this section is entitled to judicial review by way of
appeal. An appeal shall be instituted within 30 days of the mailing
notice of such assessment by filing a petition to reopen assessment,
together with an entry fee in an amount equal to the entry fee for small
claims cases pursuant to Conn. Gen. Stat. § 52-259, in the Superior
Court for Geographical Area Number 10, which shall entitle such person
to a hearing in accordance with the rules of judges of the Superior
Court.

   (G)   Cumulative remedies. The fines set forth in this section shall
be in addition to and not in lieu of any other penalties or remedies for
violations of inland wetlands and watercourses regulations of the town,
as more particularly set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-44, as amended
from time to time.

(Ord. passed 5-27-2008)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 22 page 787A

CHAPTER 154: HISTORIC PROPERTIES

Section

   154.01   Designation of historic property

   154.02   Establishment of Historic Properties Commission

   154.03   Appointment of Commission members

   154.04   Alternate members

   154.05   Commission functions and purposes

§ 154.01 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC PROPERTY.

   The Board of Selectmen, having received and reviewed the final report
of the East Lyme Historic Properties Study Committee prepared in
accordance with Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-147q, finds that the hereinafter
described properties are significant in the history, architecture,
archaeology and culture of the town and the state and that the
distinctive characteristics of said properties should be preserved and
protected, and hereby designates the following as historic properties in
the town:

   (A)   First Parcel. A certain piece or parcel of land, with the
buildings thereon, located on the southerly side of the West Main
Street, known generally as the “Thomas Lee House”, more particularly
bounded and described as follows:

Beginning at a point that marks the northwesterly corner of the herein
described parcel, said point located N 60 degrees 01' 20" E 189.91 feet
from a Connecticut Highway Department monument recovered located at the
intersection of Giants Neck Road and West Main Street; thence S 22
degrees 23' 40" E 127.25 feet to a point; thence N 79 degrees 11' 02" E
61.66 feet to a point; thence N 01 degrees 46' 00" E 66.80 feet to a
point; thence N 21 degrees 59' 00" W 90.45 feet to a point, said point
being at the southerly side of West Main Street, the last four courses
being along land now or formerly of the town of East Lyme; thence S 60
degrees 01' 20" W 89.17 feet along the southerly side of West Main
Street to the point and place of beginning.

The above described parcel of land with improvements contains 11,586
square feet and is depicted on a certain map entitled BOUNDARY SURVEY
WEST MAIN STREET & GIANTS NECK ROAD EAST LYME, CT. PREPARED FOR THE EAST
LYME HISTORICAL SOCIETY, INC. AND THE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION STATE OF CONNECTICUT D.E.P. #0441998112001 SCALE 1" = 40'
NOV. 20, 1998 REV 2/20/99 AND REV 2/29/00 and signed and sealed by DAVID
M. COONROD L.L.S. NIANTIC, CT. on file with the Connecticut Department
of Environmental Protection, to which references may be had (hereinafter
“the Map”).

Reference may be had to a certain Warrantee Deed from Jerome R. Rathbun
to The East Lyme Historical Society dated April 20, 1914 and recorded at
Volume 17 Page 307 of the East Lyme land records. In the event of any
discrepancy, the Map shall control.

   (B)   Second Parcel. A certain piece or parcel of land, with the
buildings thereon, located on the southerly side of West Main Street,
known generally as the “Little Boston School House”, the “Lee House
Barn” and related buildings, more particularly bounded and described as
follows:

Beginning at a Connecticut Highway Department monument recovered,
located at the intersection of Giants Neck Road and West Main Street
which marks the northwest corner of land of the State of Connecticut to
be conveyed; thence N 60 degrees 01' 20" E 189.91 feet along the
southerly side of West Main Street to a point; thence S 22 degrees 23'
40" E 127.25 feet to a point, thence N 79 degrees 11' 02" E 61.66 feet
to a point, thence N 01 degrees 46' 00" E 66.80 feet to a point, thence
N 21 degrees 59' 00" W 90.45 feet to a point, the last four courses
along land now or formerly East Lyme Historical Society; thence N 60
degrees 01' 20" E 23.42 feet to a Connecticut highway Department
monument recovered, thence N 56 degrees 37' 08" E 148.49 feet to an iron
pin recovered, the last two courses along the southerly side of West
Main Street, thence S 35 degrees, 02' 00" E 284.42 feet to a point;
thence S 35 degrees 45' 27" E 108.07 feet to a point in a brook, the
last two courses along land now or formerly Phyllis Perkins; thence S 33
degrees 39' 26" W 240.81 feet to an iron pin set, the last course along
other land of the State of Connecticut, thence N 27 degrees 38' 08" W
108 feet to a point along land now or formerly Paul and Joyce Riccio;
thence N 27 degrees 38' 08" W 75.00 feet to an iron pin set; thence S 69
degrees 39' 11" W 203.37 feet to an iron pin recovered; thence S 56
degrees 07' 53" W 65.46 feet to an iron pin recovered, the last three
courses along land now or formerly Robert Ashburn, thence the following
two courses along the east side of Giants Neck Road, N 35 degrees 51'
03" W 200.00 feet to an iron pin set, thence N 24 degrees 10' 30" W
77.98 feet to the point and place of beginning.

The above-described parcel of land with improvements contains 3.497
acres and is depicted on a certain map entitled BOUNDARY SURVEY WEST
MAIN STREET & GIANTS NECK ROAD EAST LYME, CT PREPARED FOR THE EAST LYME
HISTORICAL SOCIETY, INC AND THE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
STATE OF CONNECTICUT D.E.P. #0441998112001 SCALE 1" = 40' NOV 20, 1998
REV 2/20/99 AND REV 2/29/00 and signed and sealed by DAVID M COONROD LLS
NIANTIC CT. on file with the Connecticut Department of Environmental
Protection, to which references may be had (hereinafter “the Map”).

Being the same premises bounded and described within Public Act 98-255
Sec 15(a). Being the same premises bounded and described in a certain
lease between the Town of East Lyme and the East Lyme Historical Society
dated January 1, 2001 and recorded at Volume 515 Page 248 of the East
Lyme land records. In the event of any discrepancy, the Map shall
control.

   (C)   Third Parcel. A certain piece or parcel of land, together with
the buildings and improvements located thereon, located on the northerly
side of Plants Dam Road, known generally as the “Samuel Smith House”,
more particularly bounded and described as follows:

Beginning at a Drill Hole, which is on the northerly side of Plants Dam
Road and approximately 65' west of North Bride Brook Road; thence
Northwesterly along a centerline of a brook a distance of 768+/- to a
Point connected by a survey tie line North 30 degrees 01' 35" West a
distance of 753.03; thence South 84 degrees 24' 11" West a distance of
534.36 to a Point; thence South 12 degrees 12'45" East a distance of
300.97 to an Iron Pin; thence North 81 degrees 43'16" East a distance of
110.97 to a Point; thence North 89 degrees 02'26" East a distance of
22.48 to a Drill Hole; thence North 84 degrees 01'07" East a distance of
77.37 to a Point; thence South 86 degrees 55'05" East a distance of
10.68 to a Point; thence North 85 degrees 12'39" East a distance of
139.04 to a Drill Hole; thence North 82 degrees 54'28" East a distance
of 146.23 to a Drill Hole; thence North 78 degrees 10'39" East a
distance of 108.14 to a Point; thence North76 degrees 51'12" East a
distance of 149.57 to a Drill Hole; to the Point of Beginning;
containing 10.09 acres +/-.

Being the same premises bounded and described on a map in a certain
“Easements, Declaration of Covenants and Declaration of Preservation
Restrictions” from the Town of East Lyme to the State of Connecticut
acting by the State Historic Preservation Office dated April 25, 2013
and recorded in Volume 914, Page 380 of the East Lyme land records. In
the event of any discrepancy, the Map shall control.

(Ord. effective 2-19-2014)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 23 page 434, Amended

§ 154.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF HISTORIC PROPERTIES COMMISSION.

   There is an existing five member Historic Properties Commission
established by an ordinance dated August 11, 2009 and effective
September 16, 2009. Said Commission shall continue to administer the
provisions of the Connecticut General Statutes relative to the historic
properties now or hereafter designated by the town, with all the
authority, powers and responsibilities of historic properties
commissions set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. § 7-147r, as amended from time
to time.

(Ord. effective 2-19-2014)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 23 page 434, Amended

§ 154.03 APPOINTMENT OF COMMISSION MEMBERS.

   The members of the Commission shall continue to be appointed in the
following manner: three terms were filled by appointment until the first
Monday of January, 2010, at which time they were filled by appointment
for four years. Two terms were filled by appointment until the first
Monday of January, 2012, at which time they will continue to be filled
by appointment for four years.

(Ord. effective 2-19-2014)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 23 page 434, Amended

§ 154.04 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.

   There shall continue to be three alternate members of the Commission.
The terms of two alternate members were filled by appointment until the
first Monday of January, 2010, at which time they shall continue to be
filled by appointment for four years. The term of the other alternate
member shall continue to be filled by appointment until the first Monday
of January, 2012, and will continue to be filled by appointment for four
years. Such alternate members shall, when seated, have all the powers
and duties of a member of the Commission.

(Ord. effective 2-19-2014)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 23 page 434, Amended

§ 154.05 COMMISSION FUNCTIONS AND PURPOSES.

   The Historic Properties Commission shall continue to perform all of
the functions and purposes set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 7-147p
through 7-147y, inclusive.

(Ord. effective 2-19-2014)

Editor’s note:

   TM Volume 23 page 434, Amended

CHAPTER 155: PLANNING COMMISSION, ZONING COMMISSION AND
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS

Section

   155.01   Fees

§ 155.01 FEES.

   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 8-1C,
Revision of 1958, the following schedule of fees recommended by the
respective Commissions is established

      (1)   Planning Commission.

         (a)   Subdivision application review. For subdivisions and
re-subdivisions, the following fees shall be paid at the time of
application to the Planning Commission:

 

Base fee

$750

Fee per lot

$100

Professional/legal consultations

Actual cost

Public hearing fee, if applicable

$1,250

Road/utility design review fee

$1/linear foot of new road

The application fee shall include such additional fees that are required
by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-27j, as it may be amended from time to time

 

         (b)   Subdivision application processing and inspection. Upon
approval of a subdivision/re-subdivision by the Planning Commission, the
following fees shall be paid prior to Chair’s signing the approved
subdivision plan:

 

  ---------------------------------- ----------------------------
  Base fee                           $100
  Erosion control fee                Per lot $50
  Inspection fee                     $2/linear foot of new road
  Per lot fee                        $100
  Road/utility document review fee   $500
  ---------------------------------- ----------------------------

 

         (c)   Coastal area management review application. $10/lot; $25
minute.

          (d)   Application for subdivision modification. $200.

      (3)   Zoning Commission.

Coastal area management site plan

   Coastal area management site plan (commercial, industrial,
multi-family)

$300

   Coastal area management site plan (new single-family dwelling and
additions)

$200

Commercial site plan

$300

Lot split

$200

New business registration

   Commercial/industrial

$50

   Home occupation

$25

Special permit

$150

   Special permit (multi-family, commercial, industrial, top-soil, sand
and gravel, plus storm water review fee and site plan review fee

$500

   Special permit patio permit (renewal)

$20

Stormwater review

$300

Zone change (including map change)

$400

Zoning permit (commercial/industrial/institutional additions), plus site
plan review fee and storm water review fee

   Over 1,500 sq. feet

$300

   Under 1,500 sq. feet

$100

Zoning permit (commercial/industrial/institutional alterations)

   Under 1,500 sq. feet

$100

   Over 1,500 sq. feet

$200

Zoning permit new commercial/institutional buildings, plus site plan
review fee and storm water review fee

   Over 25,000 sq. feet, plus $10 per sq. foot gross floor area

$2,000

   Up to 25,000 sq. feet

$500

Zoning permit (multi-family dwellings each unit)

$300

Zoning permit (new single-family dwellings, including new individual
units of multi-family dwellings)

$300

Zoning permit (single-family alterations)

$75

   Zoning permit single-family

      Dwelling additions, under 1,000 sq. feet

$100

      Dwelling additions, over 1,000 sq. feet

$200

         Zoning permit pools

$50

         Zoning permit accessory structure

            Over 150 sq. feet

$50

            Under 150 sq. feet

$20

Zoning regulation change

$300

Zoning status opinion (mortgage)

$50

The application fees shall include such additional fees that are
required by Conn. Gen. Stat. § 22a-27i, as it may be amended from time
to time. The current fee is $30.

 

      (4)   Zoning Board of Appeals.

 

  ---------------------------------------------------- ------
  Application fee payable to Zoning Board of Appeals   $350
  ---------------------------------------------------- ------

 

   (B)   Fees shall be payable at the time an application is submitted,
except as otherwise provided.

(Ord. passed 6-4-1988; Ord. passed 3-30-1989; Ord. passed 1-18-1995;
Ord. passed 11-9-2001; Ord. passed 2-23-2003; Ord. passed 2-10-2004;
Ord. passed 11-17-2004; Ord. passed 5-16-2007; Ord. passed 6-19-2008;
Ord. effective 7-1-2011)

TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES

   Table

      I.   PUBLIC ACTS AND SPECIAL LAWS OF THE TOWN OF EAST LYME

      II.   ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF STREETS AND ROADS

      III.   STREET NAME CHANGES

      IV.   AGREEMENTS

      V.   WATER

      VI.   SEWERS

TABLE I: PUBLIC ACTS AND SPECIAL LAWS OF THE TOWN OF EAST LYME

Editor’s note:

   Complete copies of all Public Acts and Special Laws of the Town of
East Lyme are available at the Town Hall.

  ------------------------ --------------- -------------
  Public Act/Special Law   Date Approved   Description
  ------------------------ --------------- -------------

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Public Act/Special Law                                                     Date Approved                         Description

  Special Laws Vol. 4, page 1242                                             - -                                   An Act incorporating the Town of East Lyme.

  Special Laws Vol. 4, page 1244                                             Passed 1840                           Mileage of the Town of East Lyme.

  Special Laws Vol. 4, page 1166                                             Passed 1841                           Changing name of Second School Society of Lyme to the First School Society of East Lyme.

  Special Laws Vol. 4, page 1135                                             Passed 1844                           Annexing Austin F. Perkins to Second School District in East Lyme.

  Special Laws Vol. 6, page 403                                              7-24-1868                             Providing for the appointment of a trustee of the fund devised by Elisha Miller, late of Lyme, deceased, for school purposes.

  Special Laws Vol. 9, page 238                                              4-14-1881                             An Act relating to the encampment of the Connecticut National Guard.

  House Joint Res. 25                                                        4-14-1882                             An Act incorporating the Connecticut Spiritualist Camp- Meeting Association.

  Special Laws Vol. 9, page 758                                              3-28-1883                             Establishing school district lines in the Town of East Lyme.

  Special Laws Vol. 9, page 849                                              5-3-1883                              Providing for the purchase of Niantic Bridge by the Towns of East Lyme and Waterford.

  Special Laws Vol. 9, page 923                                              3-5-1884                              Concerning the Smith Memorial Home.

  Special Laws Vol. 10, page 28                                              3-6-1885                              Changing school district boundaries in East Lyme.

  Special Laws Vol. 10, page 312                                             Passed 3-26-1886                      Concerning the Niantic Burying Ground in East Lyme.

  Special Laws Vol. 11, page 574                                             5-25-1893                             In favor of the Town of East Lyme; burial expenses of Marshall Dean.

  Special Laws Vol. 12, page 733                                             3-17-1897                             An Act relating to the encampment of the Connecticut National Guard.

  Special Laws Vol. 13, page 141                                             4-18-1899                             Amending an act dividing the Town of East Lyme into two voting districts.

  TM Volume 11, page 312                                                     11-6-1973                             Repealed by referendum.

  TM Volume 21, page 5                                                                                             Changed to three districts.

  Special Laws Vol. 14, page 223                                             3-15-1903                             Incorporating the East Lyme Fire District.

  Special Laws Vol. 14, page 562                                             4-5-1905                              Providing for the payment of the funeral expenses of Peter Dyer.

  Special Laws Vol. 14, page 1095                                            7-18-1905                             Concerning the purchase by the state of the Rope Ferry Bridge.

  Special Laws Vol. 16, page 377                                             7-25-1911                             An Act making an appropriation for the maintenance of the Drawbridge across the Niantic River between the Towns of East Lyme and Waterford; for the two years ending September 30, 1913.

  Special Laws Vol. 17, page 1155                                                                                  An Act directing the Highway Commissioner to construct a bridge over the Niantic River between the Towns of East Lyme and Waterford.

  State of Connecticut                                                       Senate, 5-17-1917                     Reconsidered and passed by Yeas and Nays: Yeas 23, Nays 8, the objections of the Governor notwithstanding. John Buckley, Clerk.

  State of Connecticut                                                       House of Representatives, 5-17-1917   Reconsidered and passed by Yeas and Nays: Yeas 220, Nays 16, the objections of the Governor notwithstanding. Edward J. Kenealy, Clerk.

  Special Laws Vol. 16, page 597                                             9-5-1911                              An Act concerning the organization of districts for fire, sewer and other purposes.

  Special Laws Vol. 17, page 1078                                            5-16-1917                             An Act granting to the Town of East Lyme the use of certain property for highway purposes.

  Special Laws Vol. 18, page 375                                             3-29-1921                             An Act authorizing the Selectmen of the Town of East Lyme to sell the schoolhouse in Flanders.

  Special Laws Vol. 22, page 797                                             6-8-1937                              An Act concerning exchange of land between the state and residents in the Town of Lyme, Old Lyme and East Lyme at Stone’s Ranch.

  Special Laws Vol. 22, page 75                                              4-4-1935                              An Act including a highway in the Town of East Lyme in the trunk line system.

  Special Laws Vol. 23, page 124                                             5-2-1939                              An Act including a highway in the Town of East Lyme in the trunk line system; Bride Brook Road.

  Special Laws Vol. 22, page 66                                              6-3-1939                              An Act providing for biennial elections in the Town of East Lyme. (Many portions of this Act no longer in effect.)
                                                                             Approved by town meeting 8-1-1939     

                                                                             Received 4-30-1940                    Perambulations of town line Lyme and East Lyme. (Note: recorded in either Lyme or Old Lyme.)

  Special Laws Vol. 23, page 1000                                            6-16-1941                             An Act authorizing the Town of East Lyme to construct a water system.

  Special Acts 1951, Page 70                                                 5-16-1951                             An Act providing for the appointment of an Assessor and for the filing of assessment lists in the Town of East Lyme; repealed 11-6-1973 by referendum.
  TM Volume 11, page 312                                                                                           

  House Bill No. 1462                                                        7-8-1955                              An Act authorizing the Connecticut Spiritualist Camp-Meeting Association to levy a tax.
  (417)                                                                                                            

  Special Acts 1955, page 404                                                7-8-1955                              An Act changing the property tax assessment date in the Town of East Lyme. See Conn. Gen. Stat. § 12-62a (1995).

  Special Acts 1955, page 654                                                8-11-1955                             An Act validating notice of sale by the Tax Collector of the Town of East Lyme.

  Special Acts 1957, page 23                                                 4-3-1957                              An Act concerning the filing of assessment abstracts in the Town of East Lyme.

  Substitute for House Bill No. 1935                                         7-17-1957                             An Act authorizing the Connecticut Spiritualist Camp-Meeting Association to levy a tax.
  (619)                                                                                                            

  Special Acts Vol. 34, page 176                                             5-22-1969                             An Act including the Towns of Lyme, Old Lyme, East Lyme, Haddam and East Haddam in the franchise area of the Southern Connecticut Gas Company.

  Special Acts, Vol. 34, page 257                                            6-19-1969                             An Act authorizing the Town of East Lyme to acquire a section of Colton Road in the Town of Old Lyme.

  Special Acts Vol. 34, page 329                                             7-2-1969                              An Act concerning an appropriation to the Waterford-East Lyme Shellfish Commission.

  Special Act 293 (Section 29) of the 1969 Session of the General Assembly   7-8-1969                              Shore erosion control project at Giant’s Neck.
  Special Acts, Vol. 34, page 384                                                                                  

  Public Act No. 33 of the 1971 Session of the General Assembly              4-9-1971                              An Act concerning the Waterford-East Lyme Shellfish Commission.
  Special Acts January Session, 1971 Vol. 1, page 53 (Vol. 35)                                                     

  Special Act Vol. 35, page 26                                               5-5-1971                              An Act concerning conveyance of land of the state to the Town of East Lyme and grant of two easements to said town.
  January Session 1971, 1972                                                                                       
  Vol. 36 (none)                                                                                                   

  Special Act No. 73-138                                                     6-21-1973                             An Act granting easements to the town of East Lyme (re well sites and easements).
  Special Acts Vol. 37, page 231                                             (vol 3 of set)                        

  Special Act No. 75-43                                                      5-30-1975                             An Act creating the Pine Grove, Niantic Association.

  Special Act No. 77-68                                                      6-20-1977                             An Act concerning the conveyance of land to the Town of East Lyme.
  Special Act Vol. 2, page 77, part 2, January Session 1977                                                        

  Special Act No. 78-3                                                       3-29-1978                             An Act concerning the correction of errors in a property conveyance to the Town of East Lyme; amending Special Act No. 77-68.

  House Bill No. 5918                                                        5-29-1984                             An Act concerning the transfer of Pine Grove Road to the Town of East Lyme.
  Special Act No. 84-31                                                                                            

  Substitute House Bill No. 7535                                                                                   An Act concerning authorization of state grant commitments for school construction projects.
  Public Act No. 85-358                                                                                            
  PA 87-512 - SB 395                                                                                               

  PA 87-520 - sSB 865                                                        Effective 10-1-1987                   An Act concerning establishment of a Niantic River Gateway Commission.

                                                                             Effective 10-1-1987                   An Act concerning the depositing of shellfish and shellfisheries in Branford and increasing the penalty for a violation concerning the Waterford-East Lyme Shellfish Commission and the taking of shellfish from the Niantic River.

  PA 88-364                                                                                                        An Act concerning the revisor’s technical corrections to the General Statutes and to certain Public and Special Acts.

  Special Act No. 90-23                                                      6-6-1990                              An Act concerning authorization of state grant commitments for school building projects.

  Special Act No. 90-37                                                      6-6-1990                              An Act concerning the conveyance of certain parcels of state land in Hartford, New Milford, Ansonia and East Lyme.

  Special Act No. 93-34                                                      6-6-1990                              An Act concerning the conveyance of state land in East Lyme, Meriden and South Windsor, an easement to the state at Central Connecticut State University and the transfer of property of the Department of Transportation.
  Substitute House Bill No. 7207                                                                                   

  PA 92-108 - HB 5826                                                        10-1-1992                             An Act concerning composition of the Department of Correction.
  Judiciary Committee                                                                                              

  September 2009 Special Session                                                                                   An Act concerning the conveyance of certain parcels of state land, the boundaries of Fenwick, the validation of certain town actions, the City Point Yacht Club and Wheeler Library.
  Special Act No. 13-23                                                                                            

                                                                             Effective 1-5-2011                    Probate redistricting.

  Special Act No. 15-22                                                      7-10-2015                             An Act concerning mutual consolidation of dispatch facilities in New London, East Lyme and Waterford.

  June Special Session, Special Act No. 15-1                                                                       An Act concerning the conveyance of certain parcels of state land and amending the Charters of the Borough of Fenwick and the Giants Neck Beach Association.

                                                                                                                    

                                                                                                                   
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

TABLE II: ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE
OF STREETS AND ROADS

  ------ ------------- -------------
  Ord.   Date Passed   Description
  ------ ------------- -------------

  ------ ------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord.   Date Passed   Description
  -      - -           Abandonment of a portion of Gurley Road (TM Volume 11, pages 193, 214).
  -      3-7-1974      Abandonment of portions of Ancient Highway (TM Volume 11, pages 362, 364).
  -      11-18-1976    Abandonment of portions of South Ridge Road (TM Volume 12, page 282).
  -      9-23-1979     Discontinuance of Pine Grove Road (TM Volume 13, page 296).
  -      1-24-1981     Discontinuance of a portion of Cubles Drive while reserving an easement for drainage (TM Volume 14, page 78).
  -      12-1-1985     Discontinuance of a portion of Luce Avenue (TM Volume 15, page 230).
                        
                       
  ------ ------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

TABLE III: STREET NAME CHANGES

 

  ------ ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord.   Date Effective   Description
  -      1-1-1974         Changing the name of Lake Avenue (Crescent Beach) to Terrace Avenue and Prospect Avenue (Niantic) to Haigh Avenue (TM Volume 11, pages 276, 281).
  -      1-1-1974         Changing the names of the following Roads as indicated (TM Volume 11, pages 234, 236, 345):
  ------ ---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

  -------------- ----------
  Present Name   New Name
  -------------- ----------

  -------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
  Present Name                                       New Name
  Beachwood Road (Giants Neck Heights)               South Beechwood Road
  Beechwood Road (Gorton Lake)                       North Beechwood Road
  Bride Brook Road (Boston Post Road to Rt. 156)     North Bride Brook Road
  Bride Brook Road (Giants Neck Beach)               South Bride Brook Road
  Cobblers Court (Carriage Hill)                     North Cobblers Court
  Cobblers Court (Roxbury Park)                      South Cobblers Court
  Edgewood Road (Smith Cove)                         North Edgewood Road
  Edgewood Road (Giants Neck Heights)                South Edgewood Road
  Ledge Rock Road (North Laurel Hill)                North Ledge Rock Road
  Ledge Rock Road (South Laurel Hill)                South Ledge Rock Road
  Lee Road (Giants Neck Heights)                     North Lee Road
  Lee Road (Giants Neck Beach)                       South Lee Road
  Main Street (Pine Grove)                           North Main Street
  Pattagansett Road (Giants Neck Beach)              West Pattagansett Road
  Pattagansett Road (Niantic)                        East Pattagansett Road
  Pine Street (Saunders Point)                       North Pine Street
  Pine Street (Pine Grove)                           South Pine Street
  Society Road (NE of Dean Road)                     East Society Road
  Society Road (E of Ct. Tpke. and Bride Brk Road)   West Society Road
  Washington Avenue (Niantic)                        North Washington Ave (by correction)
  Washington Avenue (Crescent Beach)                 South Washington Avenue (by correction)
                                                     
  -------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------

 

 

  ------ ---------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord.   Date Effective   Description
  -      7-1-1975         Changing the name of Upper Four Mile River Road extending northerly from Scott Road to Grassy Hill Road to Whistletown Road (TM Volume 12, page 73).
                           
  ------ ---------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

TABLE IV: AGREEMENTS

 

  ------ ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord.   Date Effective         Description
  -      4-18-1960; 3-15-1977   Providing for participation by the town in the Regional Planning Authority (TM Volume 8, page 88; TM Volume 12, page 331 amended).
  -      Passed 4-26-1987       Creating a trust for the benefit of the town pursuant to Public Act 86-1, 6-23- 1986 Session II of the Connecticut General Assembly (TM Volume 16, page 17).
  -      10-20-1992             Creating a Regional Council of Governments (TM Volume 19, page 161).
                                 
  ------ ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

TABLE V: WATER

  ------ ------------- -------------
  Ord.   Date Passed   Description
  ------ ------------- -------------

  ------ -------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord.   Date Passed          Description
  -      5-27-1970            Extension of town water system; the major portion of the system will serve the developed area of the town south of the Connecticut Turnpike including Giant’s Neck, Black Point, Crescent Beach, Niantic Village, Pine Grove and Saunders Point and the fringe residential development along Route 156, Roxbury Road and Flanders Road. North of the Connecticut Turnpike the system will serve the Flanders area, the fringe residential development along Beckwith Highway to a point approximately 1,200 feet north of Irvingdell Place and westerly on the Boston Post Road to the residential development surrounding the southern end of Pattagansett Lake including Upper Pattagansett Road to Filosi Road (TM Volume 10, page 252, 277).
  -      7-8-1972; 1-3-1977   Water assessments imposed upon property owners on Chesterfield Road (TM Volume 11, page 110, 133; TM Volume 12, page 295 amended).
  -      9-23-1973            Water main extension ordinance no. 2; extending Road (TM Volume 11, page 269, 281)
  -      9-23-1973            Water main extension ordinance no. 3; extending from a point on Chesterfield Road (TM Volume 11, page 144, 149).
  -      1-3-1977             Water main extension ordinance no. 3; extending in a westerly direction along the Boston Post Road and extending in a southwesterly direction along Sunrise Trail (TM Volume 12, page 293).
  -      6-26-1977            Water main extension ordinance no. 4; extending in a northwesterly direction along South Drive (TM Volume 12, page 362).
  -      9-26-1977            Water main extension ordinance no. 5; extending in a general southerly direction along Lovers Lane (TM Volume 13, page 12).
  -      3-22-1979            Water main extension ordinance no. 6; extending in a general westerly direction along Burnap Road (TM Volume 13, page 200).
  -      7-20-1979            Water main extension ordinance no. 7; extending from a point at the intersection of Mostowy Road and Chesterfield Road (TM Volume 13, page 246).
  -      3-1-1983             Water assessments in Black Point Beach Club Association area (TM Volume 14, page 334).
  -      7-3-1985             Water main extension ordinance no. 8; extending from the termini of the existing water system at the intersection of West End Avenue and Billow Road and at the intersection of the Great Wight Way and West Lane to and including the area in and near the Black Point Beach Club Association and West Lane, and a portion of Terrace Avenue (TM Volume 15, page 188).
  -      9-6-1986             Water main extension ordinance no. 9; extending in a westerly direction in and along Hope Street (TM Volume 16, page 6).
  -      3-26-1988            Water main extension ordinance no. 10; extending from the terminus of the existing water system at or near the intersection of Lover’s Lane and Marion Drive running in a southerly direction a distance of 500 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Lover’s Lane and Jean Drive (TM Volume 16, page 197).
  -      12-5-1989            Water main extension ordinance no. 11; extending in a general westerly direction in and along Boston Post Road (TM Volume 17, page 86).
  -      9-7-1994             Water main extension ordinance no. 12; extending in a general northerly direction in and along North Bride Brook Road (TM Volume 20, page 194).
  -      3-7-1996             Water main extension ordinance no. 13; extending in a general westerly direction in and along Barone Road for a distance of 390 feet, more or less, from the intersection of Indian Rock Road and Barone Road (TM Volume 21, page -).
  -      3-7-1996             Water main extension ordinance no. 14; extending in a general southerly direction from the present terminus of the town’s water system at the intersection of Tanglewood Drive and Overbrook Road, in and along Frog Hollow Road, and Red Fox Road and portions of Overbrook Road and Green Valley Lakes Road. (TM Volume 21, page -).
  -      11-4-1999            Water main extension ordinance no. 15; extending in a general westerly direction in and along the Boston Post Road from the present terminus of Waterford’s water main at the Waterford town line for a distance of approximately 1,800 feet. (TM Volume 21, page 747).
  -      eff. 1-19-2000       Water main extension ordinance no. 16; extending in a general easterly direction in and along Woodrow Drive from the present municipal water main located in the North Bride Brook Road for a distance of approximately 425 feet (TM Volume 21, page 750).
  -      eff. 12-4-2000       Water main extension ordinance no. 17; extending in a general northwesterly direction from the present terminus of the town’s water system at the intersection of Liberty Way and West Main Street (Connecticut Route 156) in and along West Main Street, Capital Drive and Colton Road. (TM Volume 22, page 56).
                               
                              
  ------ -------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

TABLE VI: SEWERS

Editor’s note:

   The complete text of all sewer benefit resolutions are available for
review at the offices of the East Lyme Water and Sewer Commission,
located at East Lyme Town Hall.

  ------ ------------- -------------
  Ord.   Date Passed   Description
  ------ ------------- -------------

  ------ ----------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord.   Date Passed             Description

  Res.   - -                     Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for Industrial Park Road extension.

  Res.   - -                     Benefit assessment resolution; Clark’s Hollow Common Interest Community.

  -      4-13-1991               Sewer assessments.

  Res.   8-27-1991; 3-24- 1992   Sanitary sewer benefit resolution;
         4-27-1993               Phase I through Phase IV. For a complete listing, see TM Volume 18, Pages 229-284.

  Res.   2-27-1996               Sewers at Dodgetown Condominiums. (TM Volume 21, page 207.)

  Res.   11-4-1999               Benefit assessment resolution; Chapman Woods Common Interest Community.

  Res.   11-28-2000              Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for sewer main extension no. 1; covering all properties on West Main Street (Connecticut Route 156) between the intersection of Liberty Way and West Main Street and the westerly boundary line of property now or formerly owned by Leisure Sports, Inc., and all properties on Capitol Drive and Colton Road.

  Res.   8-26-2003               Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for sewer main extension no. 2; beginning at the intersection of Corey Lane and West Main Street (Connecticut Route 156) and runs in a general northerly direction in and along Corey Lane for a distance of 330 feet, more or less, as more particularly shown on as-built plans and specifications on file with the Town Water and Sewer Commission.

  Res.   4-30-2004               Sewer benefit resolution; Spinnaker Homes, LLC.

  Res.   3-20-2006               Benefit assessment resolution; Spinnaker Common Interest Community.

  Res.   7-10-2006               Supplemental benefit assessment resolution; Stonington Estates.

  Res.   10-24-2006              Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for sewer main extension no. 3; begins at the intersection of Smith Avenue and Main Street (Connecticut Route 156) and runs in a general northerly direction in and along Smith Avenue for a distance of approximately 1,300 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Smith Avenue and Smith Street; thence running in a generally westerly direction in and along Smith Street to the Connecticut Military Department Campground, presently known as “Camp Rell”, as more particularly shown on as-built plans and specifications on file with the Commission.

  Res.   4-23-2007               Benefit assessment resolution for Sea Spray Condominiums.

  Res.   4-23-2007               Supplemental sewer assessment resolution, pursuant to the resolution adopted on 8-27-1991.

  Res.   10-24-2008              Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for sewer main extension no. 4; bounded southerly by the State of Connecticut Military Reservation (presently known as “Camp Rell”), easterly by the Niantic River, northerly by Smith Cove and westerly by Smith Cove and includes the land, streets, roads and properties generally constituting the territorial limits of the Connecticut Spiritualist Camp- Meeting Association, Inc., as more particularly shown on as-built plans and specifications on file with the Commission.

  Res.   6-17-2009               Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for sewer main extension no. 5; running east to west along the Boston Post Road and from the present terminus of the existing sewer main at or near the Flanders Baptist Church and running westerly for a distance of 8,700 feet, more or less to a point easterly of the intersection of Boston Post Road and Plum Hill Road, all as more particularly shown on as-built plans and specifications on file with the Commission.

  Res.   - -2016                 Supplemental sewer assessment resolution, pursuant to the resolution adopted on 8-27-1991, as amended 3-24-1992.

  Res.   - -2016                 Supplemental sewer assessment resolution, pursuant to the resolution adopted on 8-27-1991, as amended 3-24-1992.

  Res.   - -2016                 Sanitary sewer benefit assessment extension no. 8; Village Crossing and Park Place Opt-In Properties.

  Res.   - -2016                 Sanitary sewer benefit resolution for sewer main extension no. 8; beginning at the East Pattagansett/Flanders Interceptor north of Herster Drive and runs generally westerly along the Park Place loop to the Village Crossing development located on park Place for a distance approximately 1,200 feet.

                                  

                                 
  ------ ----------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

PARALLEL REFERENCES

References to Connecticut General Statutes

References to Resolutions

References to Ordinances

REFERENCES TO CONNECTICUT GENERAL STATUTES

  ------------------------ --------------
  Conn. Gen. Stat. Cites   Code Section
  ------------------------ --------------

  ------------------------ ---------------------------
  Conn. Gen. Stat. Cites   Code Section
  1-212                    30.20
  7-131a                   31.01
  7-147p—7-147y            154.05
  7-147q                   154.01
  7-147r                   154.02
  7-148                    90.01
  7-148b—7-148f            31.11
  7-148c                   31.11
  7-148(c)(7)(H)(ii)       110.01
  7-148(c)(7)(H)(xv)       150.030
  7-148(c)(10)(A)          10.99
  7-148d(b)                31.11
  7-148e                   31.11
  7-148f                   31.11
  7-148H                   150.036
  7-148s                   30.20
  7-148aa                  150.037
  7-148gg                  150.035, 150.036, 150.037
  7-149a                   97.03
  7-152b                   72.02
  7-152c                   150.030, 150.036, 153.03
  7-152c(e)                150.036
  7-152c(g)                150.036
  7-170—7-186              114.01
  7-194                    110.01
  7-239                    52.21
  7-257 et seq.            53.022
  7-258                    53.002
  7-276                    32.15
  7-405                    Charter 7.3
  8-1C                     153.02, 155.01
  8-2                      150.002
  8-8                      97.03
  9-167a                   31.05
  9-183a                   32.01
  9-204b                   31.05
  9-333b(b)(9)             35.17
  9-333b(b)(11)            35.17
  12-48                    34.080
  12-53a                   34.004
  12-62a                   TSO I
  12-81                    34.035, 34.050
  12-81(7)—(16)            34.021
  12-81(19)                34.050
  12-81(22)                34.050
  12-81(58)                34.020
  12-81c(3)                34.065
  12-81w                   34.006
  12-123                   Charter 7.3
  12-129                   34.001
  12-129n                  34.080
  12-170d(a)(3)            150.034
  12-170aa(b)(2)           34.080
  14-1                     90.02
  14-80a                   90.07
  14-145                   72.02
  14-150                   72.02
  14-150(b) and (c)        71.02
  14-283                   90.02
  14-379                   73.01
  15-1                     152.03
  15-3a(b)                 152.20
  15-8                     152.99
  16-229                   97.03
  16-234                   97.03
  16-235                   97.03
  19a-200 et seq.          53.001
  20-330 et seq.           53.044
  20-341a et seq.          53.044
  21-80a                   31.11
  22a-27i                  153.02, 155.01
  22a-27j                  153.02, 155.01
  22a-42 et seq.           153.01
  22a-42g                  153.03
  22a-44                   153.03
  22a-73(c)                90.01
  22a-74a                  90.05
  22a-113k—22a-113s        152.01
  22a-113k—22a-113t        152.03
  22a-113m                 152.21
  22a-113m—22a-113o        152.21
  22a-113p                 152.03, 152.22
  22a-113s                 152.03
  22a-354a et seq.         31.40
  25-54i                   53.070
  26-240 et seq.           152.04
  26-287                   152.02, 152.20
  Chapter 28               31.09
  29-305                   150.016
  29-406                   150.005
  Chapter 45, §§ 853—862   150.003
  47a-20                   31.11
  47a-23c                  31.11
  47a-23c(c)(2)            31.11
  50-9—50-13               35.01
  51-164m                  90.99
  51-164n                  90.99
  51-164p(a)               90.99
  52-180                   153.03
  52-259                   153.03
  Chapter 103              50.17
  Chapter 103, § 7-255     53.102
  Chapter 164, §§ 10-19m   31.10
  148-o(b)                 150.030
  152c(f)                  150.036
  Chapter 246, 14-1        90.07
  Chapter 299a             113.01
  Chapter 444a             152.20
  Chapter 492              152.20
                            
                           
  ------------------------ ---------------------------

 

REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS

  ---------- ------------- --------------
  Res. No.   Date Passed   Code Section
  ---------- ------------- --------------

  ---------- ------------- ----------------------
  Res. No.   Date Passed   Code Section
  -          - -           TSO VI
  -          - -           34.005
  -          9-26-1932     30.05
  -          12-12-1938    111.01
  -          10-6-1941     52.01
  -          3-5-1945      52.02
  -          3-3-1947      31.09
  -          9-29-1947     150.004
  -          6-7-1951      30.04
  -          6-7-1951      150.003
  -          8-27-1991     TSO VI
  -          - -1992       TSO VI
  -          3-24-1992     TSO VI
  -          5-26-1992     53.100—53.107
  -          4-27-1993     TSO VI
  -          6-21-1995     30.01
  -          2-27-1996     TSO VI
  -          11-4-1999     TSO VI
  -          11-28-2000    TSO VI
  -          8-26-2003     TSO VI
  -          4-30-2004     TSO VI
  -          3-20-2006     TSO VI
  -          7-10-2006     TSO VI
  -          10-24-2006    TSO VI
  -          4-23-2007     TSO VI
  -          4-23-2007     TSO VI
  -          10-24-2008    TSO VI
  -          6-17-2009     TSO VI
  -          - -2016       TSO VI
  -          - -2016       TSO VI
  -          - -2016       TSO VI
  -          - -2016       TSO VI
  -          11-28-2016    TSO VI
  -          4-17-2019     10.01 - 10.18, 10.99
                            
                           
  ---------- ------------- ----------------------

 

REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES

  ---------- ------------- --------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Code Section
  ---------- ------------- --------------

  ---------- ----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed       Code Section
  -          - -               TSO V
  -          - -               TSO II
  -          - -               71.01—71.03
  -          - -               73.01, 73.99
  -          - -               90.01—90.09, 90.99
  -          - -               114.01
  -          - -               150.030—150.040, 150.999
  -          8-4-1947          130.01, 130.99
  -          eff. 4-18-1960    TSO IV
  -          11-14-1962        52.20
  -          1-28-1965         97.01, 97.99
  -          6-2-1966          96.01
  -          6-20-1966         153.01
  -          2-7-1968          50.02
  -          7-2-1968          31.04
  -          2-2-1970          33.01
  -          5-2-1970          97.02, 97.99
  -          5-27-1970         TSO V
  -          2-5-1971          70.01, 70.99
  -          eff. 6-19-1971    96.15, 96.99
  -          eff. 4-15-1972    150.001
  -          7-8-1972          TSO V
  -          8-18-1972         TSO V
  -          9-23-1973         TSO V
  -          9-23-1973         TSO V
  -          eff. 1-1-1974     TSO III
  -          eff. 1-1-1974     TSO III
  -          3-7-1974          TSO II
  -          11-7-1974         51.25—51.29, 51.99
  -          2-6-1975          31.42
  -          2-6-1975          52.20
  -          4-24-1975         153.01
  -          eff. 7-1-1975     TSO III
  -          8-26-1975         93.01, 93.99
  -          9-21-1975         51.25—51.29, 51.99
  -          9-21-1975         150.070, 150.999
  -          4-6-1976          34.095—34.099
  -          4-6-1976          113.01—113.03, 113.99
  -          6-24-1976         72.99
  -          8-3-1976          35.01
  -          9-1-1976          30.03
  -          11-18-1976        TSO II
  -          1-3-1977          TSO V
  -          1-3-1977          TSO V
  -          1-3-1977          70.01, 70.99
  -          eff. 3-15-1977    TSO IV
  -          6-26-1977         TSO V
  -          7-1-1977          31.04
  -          7-23-1977         50.15—50.19
  -          9-26-1977         TSO V
  -          12-5-1977         30.02
  -          12-5-1977         34.021
  -          3-28-1978         31.08
  -          1-21-1979         50.15—50.19
  -          3-22-1979         TSO V
  -          3-22-1979         52.04
  -          3-22-1979         52.05
  -          3-22-1979         52.06
  -          6-23-1979         52.21
  -          7-20-1979         TSO V
  -          8-15-1979         31.06
  -          9-23-1979         TSO II
  -          12-11-1979        153.01
  -          11-23-1980        52.04
  -          11-23-1980        52.05
  -          11-23-1980        52.06
  -          1-24-1981         TSO II
  -          1-24-1981         50.15—50.19
  -          6-22-1981         95.20—95.31, 95.99
  -          6-22-1981         151.01—151.04, 151.15, 151.30—151.35, 151.50—151.53, 151.65—151.68
  -          8-11-1981         34.035
  -          8-11-1981         95.01—95.07, 95.99
  -          9-3-1982          34.004
  -          9-23-1982         92.01—92.09, 92.99
  -          3-1-1983          TSO V
  -          8-4-1983          34.002
  -          8-4-1983          34.003
  -          9-23-1983         112.01—112.07, 112.99
  -          6-19-1984         151.31
  -          4-30-1985         31.41
  -          5-15-1985         31.07
  -          7-3-1985          TSO V
  -          12-1-1985         TSO II
  -          5-25-1986         31.41
  -          5-25-1986         31.42
  -          8-11-1986         110.01—110.04, 110.99
  -          9-6-1986          TSO V
  -          9-24-1986         72.01, 72.99
  -          11-7-1986         34.020
  -          11-8-1986         52.03, 52.99
  -          4-26-1987         TSO IV
  -          10-21-1987        31.02
  -          3-26-1988         TSO V
  -          4-16-1988         150.055, 150.999
  -          6-4-1988          153.02, 155.01
  -          7-25-1988         32.01
  -          11-21-1988        51.56
  -          12-19-1988        31.06
  -          12-19-1988        151.01—151.04, 151.15, 151.30—151.35, 151.50—151.53, 151.65—151.68
  -          3-30-1989         153.02, 155.01
  -          12-5-1989         TSO V
  -          11-26-1990        150.015
  -          12-8-1990         51.40
  -          3-17-1991         53.001—53.006, 53.020—53.023, 53.035—53.049, 53.060—53.070, 53.085—53.089, 53.999
  -          4-13-1991         TSO VI
  -          4-21-1991         150.002
  -          8-25-1992         53.100—53.107
  -          eff. 10-20-1992   TSO IV
  -          5-4-1994          152.01—152.07, 152.20—152.22, 152.99
  -          9-7-1994          TSO V
  -          1-18-1995         33.15, 33.16
  -          1-18-1995         153.02, 155.01
  -          3-30-1995         150.015
  -          eff. 8-1-1995     31.05
  -          eff. 8-15-1995    51.01—51.05, 51.07—51.15, 51.99
  -          eff. 10-5-1995    98.01, 98.99
  -          2-22-1996         51.01—51.05, 51.07—51.15, 51.99
  -          3-7-1996          TSO V
  -          3-7-1996          TSO V
  -          4-2-1997          31.04
  -          eff. 10-15-1997   51.01—51.05, 51.07—51.15, 51.99
  -          3-1-1998          51.01—51.05, 51.07—51.15, 51.99
  -          9-12-1998         53.001—53.006, 53.020—53.023, 53.035—53.049, 53.060—53.070, 53.085—53.089, 53.999
  -          11-19-1998        93.01, 93.99
  -          eff. 7-10-1999    94.01, 94.02
  -          11-4-1999         TSO V
  -          eff. 1-19-2000    TSO V
  -          2-10-2000         31.26
  -          2-10-2000         34.035
  -          10-4-2000         31.03
  -          eff. 12-4-2000    TSO V
  -          1-22-2001         31.02
  -          6-15-2001         150.015
  -          11-9-2001         153.02, 155.01
  -          11-27-2001        53.100—53.107
  -          eff. 2-18-2003    91.01—91.08, 91.99
  -          2-23-2003         153.02, 155.01
  -          6-18-2003         52.03, 52.99
  -          2-10-2004         153.02, 155.01
  -          6-1-2004          52.06
  -          6-29-2004         50.01
  -          11-17-2004        153.02, 155.01
  -          12-2-2004         31.41
  -          12-2-2004         31.42
  -          eff. 11-20-2005   31.40
  -          eff. 11-20-2005   34.065
  -          eff. 11-20-2005   34.080
  -          12-21-2005        96.15, 96.99
  -          eff. 10-1-2006    34.050
  -          11-1-2006         53.120
  -          5-16-2007         153.02, 155.01
  -          8-2-2007          35.15—35.18
  -          5-15-2008         150.015
  -          5-15-2008         153.01
  -          5-27-2008         153.03
  -          6-19-2008         34.035
  -          6-19-2008         153.02, 155.01
  -          7-1-2008          30.20
  -          7-1-2008          31.01
  -          8-2-2008          34.001
  -          - -2009           53.120
  -          5-30-2009         97.03
  -          eff. 7-1-2011     97.03
  -          eff. 7-1-2011     153.02, 155.01
  -          7-1-2011          112.01—112.07, 112.99
  -          10-24-2012        53.120
  -          eff. 2-19-2014    154.01—154.05
  -          10-29-2014        53.120
  -          5-18-2015         150.015
  -          eff. 1-30-2016    150.015
  -          10-25-2016        53.120
  -          eff. 11-15-2016   32.15—32.21
  -          4-20-2017         96.15, 96.99
  -          6-21-2017         31.25
  -          11-3-2017         53.120
  -          2-21-2018         150.015
  -          6-6-2018          150.005
  -          6-8-2018          31.08
  -          8-2-2018          72.02, 72.99
  -          9-4-2019          152.01 - 152.07, 152.20 - 152.22, 152.99
  -          1-6-2020          32.15 - 32.21
  -          1-7-2020          52.03 - 52.06
  -          - -               34.006
  -          6-3-2020          51.01, 51.09
  -          2-16-2022         31.55
  -          5-31-2022         151.01 - 151.04, 151.15, 151.30 - 151.35, 151.50 - 151.53, 151.65 - 151.74
  -          9-7-2022          51.01 - 51.17, 51.99
  -          4-19-2023         150.015
  -          4-19-2023         150.016
  -          11-15-2023        31.10
  -          2-21-2024         32.15 - 32.21
  -          2-21-2024         112.01 - 112.07, 112.99
  -          8-20-2024         31.11
  -          10-2-2024         31.27
  -          3-19-2025         30.20
  -          3-19-2025         31.10
  -          3-19-2025         150.015
  -          4-16-2025         51.17
                                
                               
  ---------- ----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
