APACHE JUNCTION, ARIZONA
CITY CODE
VOLUME I

2025 S-14 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1564, passed 5-20-2025

Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com

CHAPTER 1: GENERAL

      Article

         1-1.   GENERAL

ARTICLE 1-1: GENERAL

Section

   1-1-1   How code designated and cited

   1-1-2   Construction of ordinances

   1-1-3   Definitions

   1-1-4   Additional rules of construction

   1-1-5   References to this code

   1-1-6   Conflicting provisions; different chapters

   1-1-7   Conflicting provisions; same chapter

   1-1-8   Section headings

   1-1-9   Effect of repeal

   1-1-10   Severability of parts of code

   1-1-11   Penalty

   1-1-12   Effective date of repeal

   1-1-13   Ordinances exempt from repeal

   1-1-14   Effective date of code

   1-1-15   Number of signatures required

   1-1-16   Petition filing deadline

   1-1-17   Duties of the Clerk

   1-1-18   Responsibilities of the applicant

   1-1-19   Election schedule

   1-1-20   Duties of the Clerk

   1-1-21   Responsibilities of the applicant

   1-1-22   Petition applicants and circulators; eligibility

   1-1-23   Definition of resident/qualified elector

§ 1-1-1 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.

   (A)   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated "The code of the City of Apache
Junction, Arizona," and may be so cited.

   (B)   This code may also be cited as the "Apache Junction city code."

(Prior Code, Art. 1-1)

§ 1-1-2 CONSTRUCTION OF ORDINANCES.

   The rules and the definitions set forth in this chapter shall be
observed in the construction of this code and the ordinances of the city
unless that construction would be inconsistent with either the manifest
intent of the Council or the context of this code or the ordinances of
the city.

(Prior Code, Art. 1-2)

§ 1-1-3 DEFINITIONS.

   All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to
the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and
phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such
peculiar and appropriate meaning.

   ACTS BY AGENTS. When an ordinance requires an act to be done which
may by law as well be done by an agent as by the principal, those
requirements shall be construed to include all such acts when done by an
authorized agent.

   CITY. The City of Apache Junction, Arizona.

   CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Apache Junction, Arizona.

   CODE. The code of the City of Apache Junction, Arizona, unless the
context indicates otherwise.

   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Apache Junction, Arizona,
including the Mayor and six Councilmembers.

   DAY. The period of time between any midnight and the midnight
following.

   DAYTIME. The period of time between sunrise and sunset. NIGHTTIME is
the period of time between sunset and sunrise.

   DEPARTMENT, BOARD, COMMISSION, OFFICE, OFFICER or EMPLOYEE. Whenever
any department, board, commission, office, officer or employee is
referred to, it shall mean a department, board, commission, office,
officer or employee of the city, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise.

   GENDER; SINGULAR AND PLURAL. Words of the masculine gender include
the feminine; words in the singular number include the plural and words
in the plural number include the singular.

   IN THE CITY or WITHIN THE CITY. Includes all territory over which the
city now has, or shall hereafter acquire, jurisdiction for the exercise
of its police powers or other regulatory powers.

   MAY. Permissive.

   MONTH. A calendar month.

   OATH. Includes affirmation or declaration.

   OR. In the alternative.

   PERSON. Extends and shall be applied to firms, corporations or
voluntary associations, enterprises, as well as to individuals, unless
plainly inapplicable.

   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real
property as defined in this article.

   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.

   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.

   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.

   SHALL. Mandatory.

   SHALL HAVE BEEN. Include past and future cases.

   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK. Includes a mark when the signer
cannot write, such signer's or subscriber's name being written near the
mark by a witness who writes his or her own name near the signer's or
subscriber's name; but a signature or subscription by mark can be
acknowledged or can serve as a signature or subscription to a sworn
statement only when 2 witnesses so sign their own names thereto.

   THE STATE. The State of Arizona.

   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, including any
person holding a written or an oral lease or who occupies the whole or
part of that building or land, either alone or with others.

   TENSES. The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and
the future includes the present.

   TIME; COMPUTATION. The time within which an act is to be done as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance,
when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, except that if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or
a legal holiday it shall be excluded; and when that time is expressed in
hours, the whole of Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, from midnight
to midnight, shall be excluded.

   TIME; REASONABLE. In all cases where any section of this code shall
require any act to be done in a reasonable time or reasonable notice to
be given, such reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean such
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty,
or compliance with the notice.

   WEEK. Consists of 7 consecutive days.

   WRITING.

      (1)   Includes any form of recorded message capable of
comprehension by ordinary visual means.

      (2)   Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is required
or authorized by this code, it shall be written in the English language
unless it is expressly provided otherwise.

   YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.

(Prior Code, Art. 1-3)

Statutory reference:

   Definitions and construction of statutes generally, see A.R.S. §§
1-211 through 1-215

§ 1-1-4 ADDITIONAL RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.

   In addition to the rules of construction specified in Vol. I, §§
1-1-2 and 1-1-3, the rules set forth in this article shall be observed
in the construction of this code.

(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)

§ 1-1-5 REFERENCES TO THIS CODE.

   All references to chapters, articles or sections are to the chapters,
articles and sections of this code unless otherwise specified.

(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)

§ 1-1-6 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; DIFFERENT CHAPTERS.

   If the provisions of different chapters of this code conflict with or
contravene each other, the provisions of each chapter shall prevail as
to all matters and questions growing out of the subject matter of such
chapter.

(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)

§ 1-1-7 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; SAME CHAPTER.

   If conflicting provisions are found in different sections of the same
chapter, the provisions of the section which is last in numerical order
shall prevail unless that construction is inconsistent with the meaning
of the chapter.

(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)

§ 1-1-8 SECTION HEADINGS.

   Headings of the several sections of this code are intended as a
convenience to indicate the contents of the section and do not
constitute part of the law.

(Prior Code, Art. 1-5)

§ 1-1-9 EFFECT OF REPEAL.

   (A)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or
provision, shall be itself repealed, that repeal shall not be construed
to revive the former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it shall be
expressly so provided.

   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or
penalty incurred before the repeal took effect nor any suit, prosecution
or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for any offense
committed under the ordinance repealed.

(Prior Code, Art. 1-6)

§ 1-1-10 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.

   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the
sections, divisions, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code shall
be severable, and if any provision of this code is held unconstitutional
for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of
the code.

(Prior Code, Art. 1-7)

§ 1-1-11 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this
code, except as otherwise provided in this code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed $2,500 or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 6 months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment, and probation of up to 36 months
and any community service or community restriction, as the court deems
necessary. Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate
offense punishable as hereinabove described.

   (B)   Any violation of or failure or refusal to do or perform any act
required by Vol. I, Chapter 12, Articles 12-1, 12-2 and 12-3 constitutes
a civil traffic violation. Civil traffic violations are subject to the
provisions of A.R.S. Title 28, Chapter 6, Articles 20 and 21 and
amendments thereto. Any person found guilty of violating any provision
of Vol. I, Article 12-4 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
punishment in accordance with division (A) above.

(Prior Code, Art. 1-8)

§ 1-1-12 EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL.

   All ordinances of the City of Apache Junction except those specially
exempted in this article, now in force and effect are hereby repealed
effective at 12:01 a.m. on the first day of July, 1979, but all rights,
duties and obligations created by the ordinances shall continue and
exist in all respects as if this code had not been adopted and enacted.

(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)

§ 1-1-13 ORDINANCES EXEMPT FROM REPEAL.

   The adoption and enactment of this code shall not be construed to
repeal or in any way to affect or modify:

   (A)   Any special ordinance or ordinances regarding franchises,
annexations, dedications or zoning;

   (B)   Any ordinance making an appropriation;

   (C)   Any ordinance affecting any bond issue or by which any bond
issue may have been authorized;

   (D)   The running of the statute of limitations in force at the time
this code becomes effective;

   (E)   The continued existence and operation of any department,
agency, commission or office heretofore legally established or held;

   (F)   Any bond of any public officer;

   (G)   Any taxes, fees, assessments or other charges incurred or
imposed; or

   (H)   Any ordinances authorizing, ratifying, confirming, approving or
accepting any compact or contract with any other municipality, the State
of Arizona, or any county or subdivision thereof, or with the United
States or any agency or instrumentality thereof.

(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)

§ 1-1-14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE.

   Each and every section of this code as herein contained and hereby
enacted shall take effect and be in force on and after 12:01 a.m. on
July, 1, 1979, except that where a later effective date is provided it
shall prevail.

(Prior Code, Art. 1-10)

§ 1-1-15 NUMBER OF SIGNATURES REQUIRED.

   Fifteen percent of the total number of registered voters qualified to
vote in the last preceding municipal election at which a member or
members of the Council were elected shall be the basis on which the
number of electors of the city required to file an initiative petition
shall be computed.

(Prior Code, § 1-11-1)

§ 1-1-16 PETITION FILING DEADLINE.

   All petitions submitted under this article shall be filed with the
Clerk not less than 120 days preceding the date of the election at which
the measures so proposed are to be voted upon.

(Prior Code, § 1-11-2)

§ 1-1-17 DUTIES OF THE CLERK.

   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for an initiative petition
number as provided by A.R.S. § 19-111 and amendments thereto, the Clerk
shall assign an official number to the petitions and issue that number
to the applicant.

   (B)   The Clerk shall furnish to each applicant an initiative
petition form as provided by the Secretary of State's office and a copy
of the text of A.R.S. Title 19 and this article.

   (C)   It is not the responsibility of the Clerk to furnish the
applicant with a completed initiative petition form containing the
proposed law or measure to be initiated or to provide the text of the
proposed law or measure to be initiated.

   (D)   Unless otherwise stated by this code, the duties of the Clerk
with regard to initiative petitions shall be the same as prescribed in
A.R.S. Title 19 as amended and the Arizona State Constitution.

(Prior Code, § 1-11-3)

§ 1-1-18 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE APPLICANT.

   It is the responsibility of the applicant for an initiative petition
to comply with the procedures for an initiative as prescribed in A.R.S.
Title 19, the Arizona State Constitution and this code.

(Prior Code, § 1-11-4)

§ 1-1-19 ELECTION SCHEDULE.

   Initiative and referendum elections shall be scheduled in accordance
with A.R.S. Titles 16 and 19 and amendments thereto and the Arizona
State Constitution.

(Prior Code, § 1-12-1)

§ 1-1-20 DUTIES OF THE CLERK.

   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a referendum petition number
as provided by A.R.S. § 19-111 and amendments thereto, the Clerk shall
assign an official number to the petition and issue that number to the
applicant.

   (B)   The Clerk shall furnish to each applicant a copy of the text of
A.R.S. Title 19 and a copy of this article.

   (C)   It shall not be the responsibility of the Clerk to furnish the
applicant with a completed referendum petition form containing the
proposed law or measure to be referred. Upon the request of the
applicant, the clerk shall furnish a sample referendum petition form as
provided by the Secretary of State's Office.

   (D)   Unless otherwise stated by this code, the duties of the Clerk
with regard to referendum petitions shall be the same as prescribed in
A.R.S. Title 19 and amendments thereto, and the Arizona State
Constitution.

(Prior Code, § 1-12-2)

§ 1-1-21 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE APPLICANT.

   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant for a referendum
petition to comply with the procedures for a referendum as prescribed in
A.R.S. Title 19, the Arizona State Constitution and this code.

(Prior Code, § 1-12-3)

§ 1-1-22 PETITION APPLICANTS AND CIRCULATORS; ELIGIBILITY.

   (A)   Nomination and recall petitions. All applicants for nomination
and recall petitions for Mayor and Council shall be residents and a
qualified elector of the city.

   (B)   Initiative and referendum petitions. All applicants and
circulators of initiative and referendum petitions shall be eligible to
be a qualified elector of the State of Arizona.

(Prior Code, § 1-13-1)

§ 1-1-23 DEFINITION OF RESIDENT/QUALIFIED ELECTOR.

   (A)   For purposes of this article, the term RESIDENT is defined as
an individual having both actual physical presence and intent to remain
in the corporate limits of the City of Apache Junction, which may be
demonstrated by the following:

      (1)   A valid Arizona Driver's License or official Arizona
Identification Card, showing a current address within the corporate
limits of the City of Apache Junction; or

      (2)   Any other valid form of identification showing an address
within the corporate limits of the City of Apache Junction, such as, but
not limited to any of the following:

         (a)   A change of address card issued by the United States
Postal Service;

         (b)   Registration of a vehicle, RV or boat;

         (c)   A United States or Arizona tax return;

         (d)   A lease or rental agreement;

         (e)   A paid utility bill (water, sewer, gas, telephone, cable,
sanitation, wastewater); or

         (f)   Financial information from a credit union, bank or other
financial institution located within the City of Apache Junction.

   (B)   In order for a political committee to be considered a RESIDENT
an officer of the committee must be a RESIDENT as defined herein.

   (C)   For purposes of this article, the term QUALIFIED ELECTOR is
defined as a person who has complied with voter registration law
pursuant to A.R.S. § 16-101.

(Prior Code, § 1-13-2)

CHAPTER 2: MAYOR, COUNCIL, AND APPOINTED BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

      Article

         2-1.   COUNCIL

         2-2.   MAYOR

         2-3.   COUNCIL ELECTION

         2-4.   COUNCIL PROCEDURE

         2-5.   ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND COUNCIL ACTIONS

         2-6.   [RESERVED]

         2-7.   LIBRARY BOARD

         2-8.   PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION

         2-9.   PUBLIC ART COMMISSION

         2-10.   INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND COUNCIL
MEMBERS

         2-11.   HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES COMMISSION

         2-12.   [RESERVED]

         2-13.   FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         2-14.   REQUESTS FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

         2-15.   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

         2-16.   EMERGENCY POWERS AND AUTHORITY

         2-17.   [RESERVED]

         2-18.   [RESERVED]

         2-19.   [RESERVED]

         2-20.   [RESERVED]

         2-21.   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS/MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
CORPORATION/PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL RETIREMENT BOARD

         2-22.   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION

ARTICLE 2-1: COUNCIL

Section

   2-1-1   Elected officers

   2-1-2   Corporate powers

   2-1-3   Duties of office

   2-1-4   Vacancies in Council

   2-1-5   Compensation

   2-1-6   Oath of office

   2-1-7   Bond

§ 2-1-1 ELECTED OFFICERS.

   (A)   The elected officers of the city shall be a Mayor and 6 Council
members. The Mayor and Council members shall constitute the Council and
shall continue in office until assumption of duties of office by their
duly elected successors.

   (B)   The term of Office of the Mayor shall be 2 years, but nothing
in this section precludes such person from serving as Mayor for more
than one 2-year term after successive elections.

   (C)   Council members shall serve 4-year overlapping terms as in the
case of the office of the Mayor, Council members are not limited to
serving only one 4-year term.

(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)

§ 2-1-2 CORPORATE POWERS.

   (A)   The corporate powers of the city shall be vested in the Council
and shall be exercised only as directed or authorized by law.

   (B)   All powers of the Council shall be exercised by ordinance,
resolution, order or motion.

(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)

§ 2-1-3 DUTIES OF OFFICE.

   Council members shall assume the duties of office once sworn in at
the first regular business meeting in January following the general
election or at a special meeting in January following the general
election on a date selected by council. There shall be no interruption
of a term of office even if council members are elected outright in the
preceding August primary election.

(Ord. 1438, passed 10-18-2016)

§ 2-1-4 VACANCIES IN COUNCIL.

   The Council shall fill by appointment for the unexpired term any
vacancy that may occur for whatever reason, but such appointee shall
only fill the remainder of the term.

(Prior Code, § 2-1-4)

§ 2-1-5 COMPENSATION.

   (A)   The salary for the position of Mayor shall be paid at the rate
of $1,000 per month.

   (B)   The salary for the position of Vice Mayor shall be paid at the
rate of $900 per month.

   (C)   The salary for the position of Council member shall be paid at
the rate of $800 per month.

(Prior Code, § 2-1-5)

§ 2-1-6 OATH OF OFFICE.

   Immediately prior to assumption of the duties of office, the Mayor
and each Council member shall, in public, take and subscribe to the oath
of office.

(Prior Code, § 2-1-6)

§ 2-1-7 BOND.

   Prior to taking office, every Council member shall execute and file
an official bond, enforceable against the principal and his or her
sureties, conditioned on the due and faithful performance of his or her
official duties, payable to the state and to and for the use and benefit
of the city or any person who may be injured or aggrieved by the
wrongful act or default of the officer in his or her official capacity.
A person so injured or aggrieved may bring suit on the bond under
provisions identical to those contained in A.R.S. § 38-260. Bonds shall
be in such sum as shall be provided by resolution and the premium for
the bonds shall be paid by the city. Nothing in this section shall
preclude the city from obtaining a blanket bond pursuant to the
provisions of A.R.S. § 9-302.

(Prior Code, § 2-1-7)

ARTICLE 2-2: MAYOR

Section

   2-2-1   Selection of Mayor

   2-2-2   Vice Mayor

   2-2-3   Acting Mayor

   2-2-4   Powers and duties of the Mayor

   2-2-5   Absence of Mayor

   2-2-6   Failure to sign documents

   2-2-7   Addressing the Council

   2-2-8   Disruption of meeting

§ 2-2-1 SELECTION OF MAYOR.

   The Mayor shall be directly elected by the qualified electors of the
city.

(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)

§ 2-2-2 VICE MAYOR.

   (A)   At the same meeting at which the Mayor is sworn in at the
beginning of the mayoral term, the Council shall select one of its
members as Vice Mayor, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.

   (B)   The Vice Mayor shall perform the duties of the Mayor during his
or her absence or disability.

(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)

§ 2-2-3 ACTING MAYOR.

   In the absence or disability of both the Mayor and Vice Mayor, the
Council may designate another of its members to serve as acting Mayor
who shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities of the Mayor
during such absence or disability.

(Prior Code, § 2-2-3)

§ 2-2-4 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.

   The powers and duties of the Mayor shall include the following:

   (A)   Be the chief executive officer of the city;

   (B)   Be the Chairperson of the Council and preside over its meetings
during which the making and seconding motions and having a voice and
vote in all its proceedings;

   (C)   Execute and authenticate by signature such instruments as the
Council, or any statutes, ordinances, resolutions or this Vol. I shall
require;

   (D)   By proclamation, declaring a local emergency to exist due to
fire, conflagration, flood, earthquake, explosion, war, bombing or any
other natural or human-made calamity or disaster or in the event of the
threat or occurrence of riot, rout or affray or other acts of civil
disobedience which endanger life or property within the city. After
declaration of the emergency, the Mayor shall govern by proclamation and
impose all necessary regulations to preserve the peace and order of the
city, including but not limited to:

      (1)   Imposition of a curfew in all or any portion of the city;

      (2)   Ordering the closing of any business;

      (3)   Closing to public access any public building, street or
other public place; and/or

      (4)   Calling upon regular or auxiliary law enforcement agencies
and organizations within or without the political subdivision for
assistance.

   (E)   Performing other duties required by state statute and this Vol.
I as well as those duties required as chief executive officer of the
city.

(Prior Code, § 2-2-4)

§ 2-2-5 ABSENCE OF MAYOR.

   The Mayor shall not absent himself or herself from the city for a
greater period than 30 days without the consent of the Council.

(Prior Code, § 2-2-5)

§ 2-2-6 FAILURE TO SIGN DOCUMENTS.

   If the Mayor refuses or fails to sign any ordinance, resolution,
contract, warrant, demand or other document or instrument requiring his
or her signature for 5 days consecutively, then a majority of the
members of the Council may, at any regular or special meeting, authorize
the Vice Mayor, or in his or her absence, an acting Mayor to sign the
ordinance, resolution, contract, warrant, demand or other document or
instrument which when so signed shall have the same force and effect as
if signed by the Mayor.

(Prior Code, § 2-2-6)

§ 2-2-7 ADDRESSING THE COUNCIL.

   The public in accord with other provisions of Vol. I shall have the
right to petition Council at the call to the public for 3 minutes.

(Prior Code, § 2-2-7)

§ 2-2-8 DISRUPTION OF MEETING.

   It shall be unlawful to disturb or interrupt any regular or special
meeting of the Council; any person violating this section, in addition
to being punishable under the disorderly conduct provisions of Arizona
state law, shall be summarily ejected from the meeting and if refuses to
leave, shall be arrested for disorderly conduct.

(Prior Code, § 2-2-8)

ARTICLE 2-3: COUNCIL ELECTION

Section

   2-3-1   Primary election

   2-3-2   Non-political ballot

   2-3-3   General election nomination

   2-3-4   Election to office

   2-3-5   Candidate financial disclosure

   2-3-6   Initiative, referendum and recall special elections

§ 2-3-1 PRIMARY ELECTION.

   Any candidate who receives the majority of the votes cast at the
primary election as defined under A.R.S. § 9-821.01, as amended, shall
be declared elected to the office for which he or she is a candidate,
effective upon completion of the swearing-in ceremony held on such date
as scheduled pursuant to Apache Junction City Code, Vol. I, Chapter 2:
Mayor, Council, and Appointed Boards and Commissions, Article 2-1:
Council, § 2-1-3 Duties of Office.

(Ord. 1438, passed 10-18-2016)

§ 2-3-2 NON-POLITICAL BALLOT.

   Nothing on the ballot in any election shall be indicative of the
support of the candidate.

(Prior Code, § 2-3-2)

§ 2-3-3 GENERAL ELECTION NOMINATION.

   (A)   If at any primary election there is any office for which no
candidate is elected, the primary election shall be considered to be an
election for nomination of candidates for such office, and a general
municipal election shall be held to fill the office. Candidates to be
placed on the ballot at the general election shall be those not elected
at the primary election and shall be equal in number to twice the number
to be elected to any given office unless there be less than that number
named on the primary election ballot.

   (B)   Persons who receive the highest number of votes for the
respective offices at the primary election shall be the only candidates
at such general election, provided that if there be any person who,
under the provisions of this article, would have been entitled to become
a candidate for any office except for the fact that some other candidate
received an equal number of votes therefor, then all those persons
receiving an equal number of votes shall likewise become candidates for
that office.

(Prior Code, § 2-3-3)

§ 2-3-4 ELECTION TO OFFICE.

   The candidates equal in number to the persons to be elected who
receive the highest number of votes shall be declared elected.

(Prior Code, § 2-3-4)

§ 2-3-5 CANDIDATE FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

   Each candidate for the office of Council member shall file a
financial disclosure statement on a form prescribed by the City Clerk
when the candidate files a nomination paper. The statement shall contain
that information as required by resolution of the Council.

(Prior Code, § 2-3-5)

§ 2-3-6 INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL SPECIAL ELECTIONS.

   There is reserved to the qualified electors of the city the power of
initiative, referendum, and recall as prescribed by the state
constitution. When an initiative or referendum is required to be placed
upon the ballot, the council shall do so at the next regularly scheduled
general election, or at a special election on a date permitted under
A.R.S. § 16-204, as amended. When a recall is required to be placed upon
the ballot, the city clerk shall do so at the next regularly scheduled
general election, or at a special election on a date permitted under
A.R.S. § 16-204, as amended.

(Ord. 1445, passed 4-4-2017)

ARTICLE 2-4: COUNCIL PROCEDURE

Section

   2-4-1   Regular meetings

   2-4-2   Special meetings

   2-4-3   Meetings to be public

   2-4-4   Quorum

   2-4-5   Agenda

   2-4-6   Order of business

   2-4-7   Committees and commissions

   2-4-8   Voting

§ 2-4-1 REGULAR MEETINGS.

   The regular meetings of the Council shall be scheduled for the first
and third Tuesdays of each month at 7:00 p.m., in the Apache Junction
City Hall Complex, 300 East Superstition Boulevard, Apache Junction,
Arizona. However, when circumstances are such that there is no official
business requiring Council consideration or that there will be no quorum
of the Council present, the meeting may be cancelled by the Mayor after
notifying all members of the Council, the City Manager and the City
Clerk. Notice of cancellation of the meeting shall be posted at least 48
hours prior to the time originally scheduled for the meeting in at least
3 public places in the city. At no time, however, shall the Council meet
less than once per month.

(Prior Code, § 2-4-1) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

§ 2-4-2 SPECIAL MEETINGS.

   The Mayor, City Manager or City Clerk, may convene the Council at any
time by notifying the members of the Council of the date, hour and
purpose of such special meeting. The public shall be given at least
24-hours' notice of any such special meeting by the posting of such
notice in at least 3 public places and preparation of an agenda in
accordance with applicable state law; except that in the case of an
actual emergency, a meeting may be held upon such notice as is
appropriate for the circumstances in accordance with applicable state
law.

(Prior Code, § 2-4-2) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

§ 2-4-3 MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC.

   (A)   All official meetings of the Council at which any legal action
is taken shall be open to the public. Notice of meetings shall be given
in a manner consistent with applicable state law. Upon approval by a
majority vote of the Council, the Council may meet in a closed executive
session for a discussion of the following:

      (1)   Discussion or consideration of employment, assignment,
appointment, promotion, demotion, dismissal, salaries, disciplining or
resignation of a public officer, appointee or employee of the city,
except that with the exception of salary discussions, an officer,
appointee or employee may demand that the discussion or consideration
occur at a public meeting. The city shall provide the officer, appointee
or employee with written notice of the executive session as is
appropriate but not less than 24 hours for the officer, appointee or
employee to determine whether the discussion or consideration should
occur at a public meeting;

      (2)   Discussion or consideration of records exempt by law from
public inspection, including the receipt and discussion of information
or testimony that is specifically required to be maintained as
confidential by state or federal law;

      (3)   Discussion or consultation for legal advice with the City
Attorney or other attorneys of the city;

      (4)   Discussion or consultation with the City Attorney or other
attorneys of the city in order to consider its position and instruct
such attorneys regarding the city's position regarding contracts that
are the subject of negotiations, in pending or contemplated litigation
or in settlement discussions conducted in order to avoid or resolve
litigation;

      (5)   Discussions or consultations with designated representatives
of the Council in order to consider its position and instruct its
representatives regarding negotiations with employee organizations
regarding the salaries, salary schedules or compensation paid in the
form of fringe benefits of employees of the city; and/or

      (6)   Discussions or consultations with designated representatives
of the Council in order to consider its position and instruct its
representatives regarding negotiations for the purchase, sale or lease
of real property.

   (B)   Minutes of executive sessions shall be kept confidential except
from members of the Council, officers, appointees or employees who were
subject of discussion or consideration in executive session, or in case
of an official investigation, from investigating officials, as
authorized under applicable state law.

   (C)   No executive session may be held for the purpose of taking any
final action or making any final decision.

(Prior Code, § 2-4-3) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

§ 2-4-4 QUORUM.

   (A)   A majority of the Council members shall constitute a quorum for
transacting business, but a lesser number may recess from time to time
and compel the attendance of absent members, in such a manner and under
such penalty as the Council may by ordinance have previously prescribed.

   (B)   Council members may appear for a meeting telephonically or by
video conferencing and may cast votes during such proceeding.

(Prior Code, § 2-4-4)

§ 2-4-5 AGENDA.

   (A)   Prior to each Council meeting or on or before a time fixed by
the Council for preparation and distribution of an agenda, whichever is
earlier, the City Manager shall collect all written reports,
communications, ordinances, resolutions, contracts and other documents
which are to be submitted to the Council, and shall prepare an agenda
according to the order of business set forth below in Vol. I, § 2-4-6.

   (B)   A copy of the agenda and pertinent material, as approved by the
City Manager, shall be furnished to the Mayor and Council, City Manager,
and each pertinent department and the City Attorney by the City Clerk.

(Prior Code, § 2-4-5) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

§ 2-4-6 ORDER OF BUSINESS.

   The business of the Council shall be considered, numbered on the
agenda and disposed of in the order listed below. However, the Council
may change the order at the discretion of the Mayor.

   (A)   Call to order. The Mayor shall take the chair precisely at the
hour set for the meeting and shall immediately call the Council to
order. In the absence of the Mayor, the Vice Mayor shall call the
Council to order. In the absence of both the Mayor and Vice Mayor, the
City Clerk shall call the Council to order and an acting Mayor shall be
selected to chair the meeting. Upon arrival of the Mayor or the Vice
Mayor, the Vice Mayor or the acting Mayor shall immediately relinquish
the chair upon the conclusion of the business immediately before the
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum, decide all
questions of order and conduct the proceedings of the meetings in
accordance with the parliamentary rules contained in Webster's New World
Robert's Rules of Order, Copyright 1999 by Robert McConnell Productions
or as may be revised. Any conflict under these rules with state law
shall render such rules unenforceable and state law and/or other local
regulations may apply. The City Attorney may serve as parliamentarian or
a parliamentarian may be appointed by the Council for regular and
special meetings.

   (B)   Invocation and pledge of allegiance. The Mayor shall call upon
the Vice Mayor, member of Council or a member of the public for an
invocation and the pledge of allegiance.

   (C)   Roll call. Before proceeding further on the agenda, the City
Clerk or Deputy City Clerk shall call the roll of the members, and the
names of those present shall be entered in the minutes. If a quorum is
not present, the members may adjourn pursuant to Vol. I, § 2-4-4.

   (D)   Consent agenda. The Council may, at this time, take single
action on any or all items listed as consent agenda items. These items
may include, but are not limited to, acceptance of agenda, acceptance of
minutes, appointments, acceptance of resignations and adoption of
certain resolutions and other items which do not require a public
hearing. The consent agenda is a time saving device of which the Mayor
and City Council is to receive documentation on these items from the
City Manager for their review prior to the meeting. Any member of the
Council may remove any item from the consent agenda for discussion and
cause a separate vote on the matter later in the agenda.

   (E)   Awards, presentations, proclamations, acknowledgment of
distinguished guests and visitors, and staff presentation of receipt of
grant or donated funds. Awards, presentations from other organizations,
proclamations issued by the Mayor, and acknowledgment of distinguished
guests and visitors, and staff presentation of receipt of grant or
donated funds are permitted at this time.

   (F)   Announcement of current events. The Mayor or any member of
Council may at this time present a brief summary of current events.
However, no discussion shall take place on such items except for
clarifying comments related to substance, time and location.

   (G)   City Manager’s report. The City Manager, members of city staff,
or those individuals designated by the City Manager may present
information pertinent to items under consideration or information
related to the operation of the city. There shall, however, be no
discussion at this time except for clarification inquiries.

   (H)   Public hearings. Public hearings required by applicable law
shall be conducted by the Council and any person shall be given the
opportunity to speak. All remarks shall be addressed to the Council as a
whole and not to any member thereof. The remarks shall be limited to 5
minutes unless additional time is granted by the Mayor. This time
limitation shall not apply to applicants and their agents appearing
before the Council.

   (I)   Old business. The Council shall consider any business that has
been previously considered and which is still unfinished to include
those items previously postponed or tabled. No member of the public
shall be permitted to speak on these items unless invited to do so by
the Mayor after first submitting a written “Request to Speak” form with
the City Clerk.

   (J)   New business. The Council shall consider any business not yet
considered. No member of the public shall be permitted to speak on these
items unless invited to do so by the Mayor after first submitting a
written “Request to Speak” form with the City Clerk.

   (K)   Council direction to staff. This item allows the Mayor and City
Council to direct staff on specifically listed matters.

   (L)   Call to the public.

      (1)   At this time the public has the privilege of addressing the
Council relating to city business that is not listed on the agenda with
requests, communications, comments or suggestions. All speakers must
submit a written “Request to Speak” form to the City Clerk no later than
after the City Manager’s Report portion of the agenda has concluded. All
such remarks shall be addressed to the Council as a whole and not to any
member thereof. The Mayor is authorized to ask a speaker to stop
speaking and leave the podium or to adjourn the meeting if anyone
becomes disorderly, uncivil, makes personal attacks or continues to
speak about items that are not within the jurisdiction of the city after
being warned such issues are beyond the jurisdiction of the city to act.
The Council may not answer questions of the speaker or discuss their
concerns with staff or other members of the Council, but may, at the
conclusion of Call to the Public:

         (a)   Respond to criticism by a speaker;

         (b)   Ask staff to review a matter; and

         (c)   Ask staff to place a matter on a future agenda.

      (2)   Each speaker must approach the podium, speak into the
microphone, and provide his or her name and address. There is a 3 minute
time limit per speaker.

   (M)   Adjournment. The Mayor shall at the conclusion of all items on
the agenda, adjourn the meeting without the necessity of a vote.

(Prior Code, § 2-4-6) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006; Am. Ord. 1342,
passed 7-7-2009)

§ 2-4-7 COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS.

   The Council may create such committees, boards and commissions:
standing, advisory or special, as it deems necessary. The committees,
boards and commissions shall consist of as many members and shall
perform such duties as the Council may require and shall exist at the
pleasure of the Council. No employee or appointed officer of the city
may serve as a voting member of any such committee, board or commission.

(Prior Code, § 2-4-7) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

§ 2-4-8 VOTING.

   (A)   The Mayor shall vote as a member of the Council.

   (B)   The ayes and nays upon all questions shall be taken and entered
in the minutes by roll call.

(Prior Code, § 2-4-8) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

ARTICLE 2-5: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND COUNCIL ACTIONS

Section

   2-5-1   Prior approval

   2-5-2   Reading of ordinance

   2-5-3   Requirements for an ordinance

   2-5-4   Effective date of ordinances

   2-5-5   Signatures required

   2-5-6   Publishing required

   2-5-7   Posting required

§ 2-5-1 PRIOR APPROVAL.

   (A)   All ordinances, resolutions and contract documents shall,
before formal presentation to the Council, have been reviewed as to form
by the City Attorney.

   (B)   When there are substantive matters of administration involved,
all ordinances, resolutions and contract documents shall be referred to
the person who will be charged with the administration of such
ordinance, resolution or contract.

   (C)   The person shall have an opportunity to present comments,
suggestions and objections, if any, prior to the passage of the
ordinance, resolution or acceptance of the contract.

(Prior Code, § 2-5-1) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

§ 2-5-2 READING OF ORDINANCE.

   (A)   Unless requested to be read in full by a majority vote of
Council members present, the City Clerk shall read the proposed
ordinance by title only.

   (B)   Upon completion of the vote on reading by title only, the Mayor
and Council shall vote on the text after the main motion is seconded.

(Prior Code, § 2-5-2) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

§ 2-5-3 REQUIREMENTS FOR AN ORDINANCE.

   Each ordinance may have only one subject, the nature of which is
clearly expressed in the title. Whenever possible, each ordinance shall
be introduced as an amendment to Volume I or II of the city code or to
an existing ordinance and, in such case, the title of the chapter,
article and section proposed to be amended shall be included in the
ordinance.

(Prior Code, § 2-5-3) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

§ 2-5-4 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.

   (A)   No ordinance, resolution or franchise shall become operative
until 30 calendar days after its passage by the Council and signature by
the Mayor, except measures necessary for the immediate preservation of
the peace, health or safety of the city.

   (B)   Such an emergency measure shall not become immediately
operative unless it states in a separate section the reason why it is
necessary that it should become immediately operative, and unless it is
approved by the affirmative vote of 3/4 of all the members elected to
the Council taken by ayes and nays.

(Prior Code, § 2-5-4) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

§ 2-5-5 SIGNATURES REQUIRED.

   Every ordinance passed by the Council shall, before it become
effective, be signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk.

(Prior Code, § 2-5-5) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

§ 2-5-6 PUBLISHING REQUIRED.

   Only such ordinance, resolutions, motions, regulations or proceedings
of the Council shall be published as may be required by applicable
federal or state law, city code or expressly ordered by the Council.

(Prior Code, § 2-5-6) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

§ 2-5-7 POSTING REQUIRED.

   Every ordinance imposing any penalty, fine, forfeiture or other
punishment shall, after passage, be posted by the City Clerk in 3 or
more public places within the city and an affidavit of the person who
posted the ordinance shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk as
proof of posting.

(Prior Code, § 2-5-7) (Am. Ord. 1267, passed 5-2-2006)

ARTICLE 2-6: RESERVED

[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 2-7: LIBRARY BOARD

Section

   2-7-1   Creation

   2-7-2   Membership and terms of office

   2-7-3   Salaries and personal expenses

   2-7-4   Officers

   2-7-5   Meetings

   2-7-6   Vacancies

   2-7-7   Removal of members

   2-7-8   Duties

§ 2-7-1 CREATION.

   There is hereby established the Apache Junction Public Library, to be
governed by 7 trustees, in compliance with A.R.S. §§ 9-411 to 9-419,
those sections of statutes being adopted by reference just as if copied
fully herein, the city reserving the right to levy taxes for the support
of the library as provided by law.

(Prior Code, § 2-7-1)

§ 2-7-2 MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS OF OFFICE.

   (A)   The Library Board shall consist of 7 trustees who shall be
appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Council. Ex-officio trustee,
without voting privileges, may be designated by the Mayor with the
approval of the Council.

   (B)   The terms of the trustees shall be for 3 years and shall expire
on October 31 of succeeding years or until their successors are duly
appointed by the Council, except that in the event of the Board
membership complement falling below the required quorum level set forth
in § 2-7-5, the membership vacancies shall be filled by the Council for
their unexpired terms any time before the annual October appointment
cycle using the then-existing talent bank applications. The terms shall
be so staggered that the terms of no more than 3 trustees shall conclude
in any given year. Ex-officio members shall serve for a term not to
exceed 1 year.

   (C)   All trustees and ex-officio members shall be residents of the
City of Apache Junction.

(Prior Code, § 2-7-2) (Am. Ord. 1328, passed 10-27-2008; Am. Ord. 1520,
passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-7-3 SALARIES AND PERSONAL EXPENSES.

   The trustees of the Library Board shall receive no salaries or other
remuneration for their services in such capacity and shall not be
entitled to personal expenses incurred by them in the discharge of their
official duties, except to the extent and purposes and amount such
expense is first authorized and approved by the Council.

(Prior Code, § 2-7-3)

§ 2-7-4 OFFICERS.

   (A)   The officers of the Board shall include a President,
Vice-President and Secretary who shall be elected by the members at the
first meeting of the Board following October 31 of each year. Those
officers shall serve until October 31 of the next succeeding year.

   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Vice-President shall
preside at meetings. In the absence of the Vice-President, the Secretary
shall serve in that capacity.

(Prior Code, § 2-7-4) (Am. Ord. 1370, passed 1-4-2011)

§ 2-7-5 MEETINGS.

   (A)   The Board shall establish a regular meeting day and time once a
month for meetings relating to regular business purposes. Special
meetings may also be called but on an as needed basis.

   (B)   A quorum shall consist of 4 voting members for the transaction
of all business.

(Prior Code, § 2-7-5)

§ 2-7-6 VACANCIES.

   Vacancies shall be filled by the Council in accordance with Vol. I, §
2-7-2 for the unexpired term of the member affected.

(Prior Code, § 2-7-6)

§ 2-7-7 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.

   Members of the Board serve at the pleasure of the Council and may be
removed by the Mayor with the concurrence of the Council. A member shall
not be absent from Library Board regular meetings for more than 3
consecutive times without a reasonable excuse. After the absence of 3
consecutive meetings, the remaining trustees of the Library Board shall
vote to retain or recommend to the Council that the absentee trustee be
relieved of his or her duties on the Board.

(Prior Code, § 2-7-7)

§ 2-7-8 DUTIES.

   (A)   The Board, through the City Manager, shall recommend
regulations and policy for the governing, control and improvement of the
Apache Junction Library.

   (B)   The Board may interview, evaluate and recommend to the Council
the best qualified applicant for the position of library director from
those candidates provided by the personnel officer.

   (C)   To submit annually to the Council by the first Monday in July
an overall evaluation of the library system.

(Prior Code, § 2-7-8)

ARTICLE 2-8: PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION

Section

   2-8-1   Creation

   2-8-2   Membership and terms of office

   2-8-3   Salaries and personal expenses

   2-8-4   Officers

   2-8-5   Meetings

   2-8-6   Vacancies

   2-8-7   Removal of members

   2-8-8   Duties

§ 2-8-1 CREATION.

   A Parks and Recreation Commission of the City of Apache Junction is
hereby created.

(Prior Code, § 2-8-1)

§ 2-8-2 MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS OF OFFICE.

   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall consist of 7 members
who shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Council.
Ex-officio members, without voting privileges, may be designated by the
Mayor with the approval of the Council.

   (B)   Commission members shall all serve for a term of 3 years or
until their successors are duly appointed by the Council. Terms of
members shall be so staggered that the terms of no more than 3 members
shall expire in any 1 year and, in accordance with this section, all
such terms shall expire on October 31 of succeeding years, except that
in the event of the Board membership complement falling below the
required quorum level set forth in § 2-8-5, the membership vacancies
shall be filled by the Council for their unexpired terms any time before
the annual October appointment cycle using the then-existing talent bank
applications. If a reduction in membership is ever approved by the
Council, the terms of office due to expire or unfilled at the time of
amendment shall remain so and no future appointments shall be made to
replace those members.

   (C)   All members shall be residents of the City of Apache Junction.

(Prior Code, § 2-8-2) (Am. Ord. 1328, passed 10-27-2008; Am. Ord. 1520,
passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-8-3 SALARIES AND PERSONAL EXPENSES.

   The members of the Parks and Recreation Commission shall receive no
salaries or other remuneration for their services in such capacity, and
shall not be entitled to personal expenses incurred by them in the
discharge of their official duties, except to the extent and purposes
and amount such expenses are first authorized and approved in advance by
the Council.

(Prior Code, § 2-8-3) (Am. Ord. 1538, passed 12-19-2023)

§ 2-8-4 OFFICERS.

   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson from
their members to serve for a period of one year. The Vice Chairperson
shall preside at meetings in the absence of the Chairperson.

(Prior Code, § 2-8-4) (Am. Ord. 1538, passed 12-19-2023)

§ 2-8-5 MEETINGS.

   The Commission shall establish a regular meeting day and time at
least once a month. Special meetings may be called as required. A quorum
shall consist of 4 voting members for the transaction of all business.

(Prior Code, § 2-8-5)

§ 2-8-6 VACANCIES.

   Vacancies shall be filled by the Council in accordance to Vol. I, §
2-8-2 for the unexpired term of the member affected.

(Prior Code, § 2-8-6)

§ 2-8-7 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.

   Members of the Commission serve at the pleasure of the Council and
may be removed by the Mayor with the concurrence of the Council. A
member shall not be absent from Parks and Recreation Commission regular
meetings for more than 3 consecutive times without a reasonable excuse.
After the absence of 3 consecutive meetings the remaining members of the
Parks and Recreation Commission shall vote to retain or recommend to the
Council that the absentee member be relieved of his or her duties on the
Commission.

(Prior Code, § 2-8-7)

§ 2-8-8 DUTIES.

   The Commission through the Director of Parks and Recreation shall
recommend regulations and policies for the government, control and
improvement of the public parks of the City of Apache Junction. The
Commission shall also recommend fees for the use of public park
facilities and recommend full-time or seasonal employees as necessary
for the efficient management of the City Parks and Recreation Program.

(Prior Code, § 2-8-8) (Am. Ord. 1538, passed 12-19-2023)

ARTICLE 2-9: PUBLIC ART COMMISSION

Section

   2-9-1   Creation

   2-9-2   Membership and terms of office

   2-9-3   Duties

   2-9-4   Officers

   2-9-5   Meetings

   2-9-6   Vacancies

   2-9-7   Removal of members

   2-9-8   Appropriateness of public art

§ 2-9-1 CREATION.

   The Public Art Commission (hereinafter the “Art Commission” of the
City of Apache Junction is hereby created.

(Ord. 1478, passed 9-17-2019)

§ 2-9-2 MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS OF OFFICE.

   (A)   The Art Commission shall consist of five members who shall be
appointed and approved by the Mayor and City Council.

   (B)   (1)   Membership shall be comprised as follows:

         (a)   One member: practicing artist from the visual arts
discipline;

         (b)   Four members: having a general interest in art;

      (2)   Out of the five members, at a minimum, three shall be city
residents.

   (C)   The appointments shall be staggered so that the terms of no
more than two members will expire in any given year.

   (D)   Upon expiration of the initial terms of office, all new
appointments shall be made by the Council for full three year terms and
all such terms shall expire on October 31 of succeeding years, except
that in the event of the Board membership complement falling below the
required quorum level set forth in § 2-9-5, the membership vacancies
shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired terms any time before
the annual October appointment cycle using the then-existing talent bank
applications. The term of all members shall extend until their
successors are appointed.

   (E)   Art Commission members shall receive no salaries or other
remuneration for their services in such capacity, and they shall not be
entitled to personal expenses incurred by them in the discharge of their
official duties, except to the extent that such expenses are authorized
and approved in advance by the City Manager or his or her designee.

(Ord. 1478, passed 9-17-2019; Am. Ord. 1520, passed 12-7-2021; Am. Ord.
1534, passed 3-21- 2023)

§ 2-9-3 DUTIES.

   It shall be the duty of the Art Commission to:

   (A)   Promote and encourage diverse citizen participation in public
art;

   (B)   Assist corporations, commercial developments, and other private
and governmental entities to incorporate public art;

   (C)   Recommend the operating and capital improvement program budgets
for the public art program;

   (D)   Conduct the request for qualifications process for all public
art installations;

   (E)   Review gifts of art offered to the city for artistic and
cultural purposes;

   (F)   Provide information, recommendations and advise City Council
and staff on public art policies and initiatives relating to the city’s
mission and vision statements for all art;

   (G)   Serve as recommending body on public art projects relating to
art in public places;

   (H)   Serve as the recommending body on public art projects relating
to art in private development.

(Ord. 1478, passed 9-17-2019)

§ 2-9-4 OFFICERS.

   The Art Commission shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson
from among its membership to serve for each year of their term. The Vice
Chairperson shall preside at Commission meetings in the absence of the
Chairperson.

(Ord. 1478, passed 9-17-2019)

§ 2-9-5 MEETINGS.

   The Art Commission shall establish a regular meeting day and time to
be convened in the City of Apache Junction Council chambers in
compliance with the Arizona open meeting laws. Special meetings may be
called as required.

(Ord. 1478, passed 9-17-2019)

§ 2-9-6 VACANCIES.

   Vacancies shall be filled by the Council in accordance to Apache
Junction City Code, Vol. I, § 2-9-2 for the unexpired term of the member
affected.

(Ord. 1478, passed 9-17-2019)

§ 2-9-7 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.

   Art Commission members shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and
may be removed by Council without the necessity of notice or a public
hearing. A member shall not be absent from Art Commission meetings for
more than 3 consecutive times without a reasonable excuse. After the
absence of 3 consecutive meetings, the senior staff person designated by
the City Manager to manage the Commission shall formally recommend to
Council that the member be relieved of his or her duties.

(Ord. 1478, passed 9-17-2019)

§ 2-9-8 APPROPRIATENESS OF PUBLIC ART.

   Public art shall:

   (A)   Infuse art, culture, and creativity through a community-engaged
design which plays on the community’s heritage;

   (B)   Build on the community’s built environment and distinctive
attributes which will highlight the community and provide a sense of
place;

   (C)   Collaborate and create partners with the local government, arts
groups, artists, and the community;

   (D)   Create city and neighborhood landmarks which connects people to
place;

   (E)   Address cultural and environmental appropriateness;

   (F)   Preserve archaeological, historical, and cultural resources;
and

   (G)   Consider design principles, materials, and maintenance.

(Ord. 1478, passed 9-17-2019)

ARTICLE 2-10: INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND COUNCIL MEMBERS

Section

   2-10-1   Definitions

   2-10-2   Indemnification

   2-10-3   Action other than by or in the right of city

   2-10-4   Criminal proceeding

   2-10-5   No presumption created

   2-10-6   Action by or in the right of city

   2-10-7   Negligence and misconduct

   2-10-8   Success on the merits

   2-10-9   Determination by Council

   2-10-10   Payment of expenses in advance

   2-10-11   Indemnification not exclusive remedy

§ 2-10-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   PERSON. Includes officers, appointees, employees and Council members
of Apache Junction.

   PROCEEDINGS. Includes any threatened, pending or completed action,
suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administered or
investigated.

(Prior Code, § 2-10-1)

§ 2-10-2 INDEMNIFICATION.

   Any person made a party or threatened to be made a party to any
proceeding by reason of the fact that the person is an officer,
employee, appointee, or Council member of Apache Junction shall be
indemnified by the city as hereinafter set forth.

(Prior Code, § 2-10-2)

§ 2-10-3 ACTION OTHER THAN BY OR IN THE RIGHT OF CITY.

   If the proceeding is one other than an action by or in the right of
the city, the person shall be indemnified against his or her expenses,
including attorneys fees, and including judgments, fines, amounts paid
in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in
connection with the proceeding.

(Prior Code, § 2-10-3)

§ 2-10-4 CRIMINAL PROCEEDING.

   If the proceeding is a criminal proceeding, the person shall be
indemnified if he or she had no reasonable cause to believe his or her
conduct was unlawful.

(Prior Code, § 2-10-4)

§ 2-10-5 NO PRESUMPTION CREATED.

   With respect to indemnification under Vol. I, §§ 2-10-3 or 2-10-4, a
termination of a proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction
or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, by
itself, create a presumption that the person acted, or failed to act,
other than in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably
believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the city; and
with respect to any criminal proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe
that his or her conduct was unlawful.

(Prior Code, § 2-10-5)

§ 2-10-6 ACTION BY OR IN THE RIGHT OF CITY.

   If the proceeding is one by or in the right of the city to procure a
judgment in the city's favor, the person shall be indemnified against
his or her expenses, including attorneys fees, but excluding judgments
and fines, and, except as hereinafter set forth, amounts paid in
settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection
with the defense or settlement of the proceeding if he or she acted, or
failed to act, in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably
believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the city.

(Prior Code, § 2-10-6)

§ 2-10-7 NEGLIGENCE AND MISCONDUCT.

   (A)   No indemnification under Vol. I, § 2-10-6 shall be made in
respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have
been adjudged to be liable for negligence or misconduct in the
performance of his or her duty to the city except that such person may
apply to the court in which the proceeding was brought and request a
determination that the person is fairly and reasonably entitled to
indemnity for the expenses when the court shall deem proper.

   (B)   The court in which any such proceeding was brought may
determine upon application that, in view of all circumstances of the
case, indemnity for amounts paid in settlement is proper and may order
indemnity for the amounts so paid in settlement and for the expenses,
including attorneys fees, actually and reasonably paid in connection
with the application, to the extent the court deems proper.

(Prior Code, § 2-10-7)

§ 2-10-8 SUCCESS ON THE MERITS.

   To the extent that a person covered by this article has been
successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any proceeding
covered by this article or in the defense of any claim, issue or matter
therein, he or she shall be indemnified against expenses, including
attorneys fees, actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in
connection therewith.

(Prior Code, § 2-10-8)

§ 2-10-9 DETERMINATION BY COUNCIL.

   Any indemnification made pursuant to this article, unless ordered by
a court, shall be made by the city only as authorized in the specific
case upon a determination that indemnification of the officer,
appointee, employee or Council member is proper in the circumstances
because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth
in this article. The determination shall be made by any of the
following:

   (A)   By the Council by majority vote of a quorum consisting of
Council members who were not part to the proceeding;

   (B)   If a quorum is not obtainable, then in a written opinion of
independent legal counsel acquired by majority of the disinterested
Council members for that purpose; and

   (C)   If there are no disinterested Council members, by the court or
other body before which the proceeding was brought or in the court of
competent jurisdiction upon the approval of an application by any person
seeking indemnification, in which case indemnification may include the
expenses, attorneys fees, actually and reasonably paid in connection
with the application.

(Prior Code, § 2-10-9)

§ 2-10-10 PAYMENT OF EXPENSES IN ADVANCE.

   Expenses, including attorneys fees, incurred in defending a civil or
criminal proceeding may be paid by the city in advance of the final
disposition of the proceeding as authorized in the manner provided in
Vol. I, § 2-10-9 upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the
officer, employee or Council member to repay the amount unless it shall
ultimately be determined that he or she is entitled to be indemnified by
the city as authorized by this article.

(Prior Code, § 2-10-10)

§ 2-10-11 INDEMNIFICATION NOT EXCLUSIVE REMEDY.

   The indemnification provided by this article shall not be deemed
exclusive of any other rights to which those indemnity may be entitled.

(Prior Code, § 2-10-11)

ARTICLE 2-11: HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES COMMISSION

Section

   2-11-1   Creation

   2-11-2   Membership and terms of office

   2-11-3   Compensation and expenses

   2-11-4   Officers

   2-11-5   Duties

   2-11-6   Meetings

   2-11-7   Vacancies

   2-11-8   Removal of members

§ 2-11-1 CREATION.

   (A)   The Health and Human Services Commission of the City of Apache
Junction, Arizona, is hereby created.

   (B)   Staff responsibilities shall be assigned through the City
Manager's office.

(Prior Code, § 2-11-1) (Am. Ord. 1519, passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-11-2 MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS OF OFFICE.

   (A)   Effective November 1, 2022, the Health and Human Services
Commission shall consist of 7 members instead of 5 who shall be
appointed and approved by the Council.

   (B)   (1)   The appointments to this Commission shall be for terms of
3 years each, with the terms of members so staggered that the terms of
no more than 3 members shall expire in any given year.

      (2)   Upon expiration of the term of office, all new appointments
shall be made by the Council for full 3-year terms and all such terms
shall expire on October 31 of succeeding years, except that in the event
of the membership complement falling below the required quorum level set
forth in § 2-11-6, the membership vacancies shall be filled by the
Council for the balance of the unexpired terms any time before the
annual October appointment cycle using the then-existing talent bank
applications.

   (C)   At least 4 of the 7 members shall be residents of the city,
with no more than 3 being non-residents from within the "zone of
influence", which means areas outside the city limits in Pinal County
that the Council deems having a cultural, social and economic impact on
the city.

   (D)   No individual shall be appointed to the Commission if the
individual has received funding from the city either as an individual,
or if such person has served on the board of any agency or been the
employee of any agency that has received funding from the city at any
time during the preceding 12 months.

   (E)   No former member of the Health and Human Services Commission
shall make application to the city for funding as an individual or as
the employee or representative of any agency within 12 months after they
have ceased to be a member of the Commission.

(Prior Code, § 2-11-2) (Am. Ord. 1328, passed 10-27-2008; Am. Ord. 1519,
passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-11-3 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.

   The members of the Health and Human Services Commission shall receive
no salaries or other remuneration for their services as members of the
Commission and shall not be entitled to personal expenses incurred by
them in the discharge of their official duties, except to the extent,
purposes and amount such expense is first authorized and approved in
advance by the City Manager or his or her designee.

(Prior Code, § 2-11-3) (Am. Ord. 1519, passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-11-4 OFFICERS.

   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from
among its members to serve for a period of 1 year. The Vice Chairperson
shall preside at Commission meetings in the absence of the Chairperson.

(Prior Code, § 2-11-4) (Am. Ord. 1519, passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-11-5 DUTIES.

   The Health and Human Services Commission is hereby charged with the
following duties:

   (A)   Conduct public hearings to determine the needs of city
residents with regard to public health provision of human services and
care of the elderly, and disabled;

   (B)   Enhance the development of the public health through public
forums, seminars and work with other agencies;

   (C)   Review requests submitted by health and human service providers
(non-profit agencies) for city funding and to make recommendations to
the Council regarding that funding;

   (D)   Assist in the development of health care facilities;

   (E)   Make recommendations to the Council regarding elderly health
care and emergency transportation programs.

(Prior Code, § 2-11-5) (Am. Ord. 1519, passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-11-6 MEETINGS.

   (A)   The City Clerk shall establish a regular meeting date schedule
for the Commission.

   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson.

   (C)   A quorum shall consist of 4 members for the transaction of all
business.

(Prior Code, § 2-11-6) (Am. Ord. 1519, passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-11-7 VACANCIES.

   Vacancies shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of §
2-11-2.

(Prior Code, § 2-11-7) (Am. Ord. 1519, passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-11-8 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.

   (A)   Members of the Commission serve at the pleasure of the Council
and may be removed from office by the majority of the Council.

   (B)   A member of the Commission shall not be absent from more than 3
consecutive meetings without notification to staff of the reason for
such absence before each meeting.

   (C)   If the 3 consecutive absences occur without the required
notification to staff, the remaining members of the Commission shall
vote to recommend to the Council whether the absentee member should be
removed from the Commission.

(Prior Code, § 2-11-8) (Am. Ord. 1519, passed 12-7-2021)

ARTICLE 2-12: RESERVED

[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 2-13: FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Section

   2-13-1   Definitions

   2-13-2   Duty to file financial disclosure statement

   2-13-3   Duty to file financial disclosure statement by a candidate
for the Council

§ 2-13-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   COMPENSATION. Money, tangible things of value or financial benefit.

   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A spouse of a local public officer, and any minor
child of whom he or she has legal custody.

   LOCAL PUBLIC OFFICER. A person holding an elective office in the City
of Apache Junction, Arizona.

(Prior Code, § 2-13-1)

§ 2-13-2 DUTY TO FILE FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.

   (A)   In addition to other statements and reports required by law,
each local public officer as a matter of public record shall file with
the City Clerk, on a form prescribed by the City Clerk, a verified
statement disclosing:

      (1)   His or her name, the name of each member of his or her
immediate family, and all names under which they do business;

      (2)   An identification of each employer and of each other source
of compensation amounting to more than $1,000 annually received by the
local public officer and his or her immediate family in their own names
or by any other person for the use or benefit of the local public
officer and his or her immediate family, and a brief description of the
nature of the services for which the compensation was received, except
that this division shall not be construed to require the disclosure of
information that may be privileged by law, nor the disclosure of
individual items of compensation that constitute a portion of the gross
income of the business or profession from which the local public officer
and his or her immediate family derive compensation;

      (3)   The name of every corporation, trust, business trust,
partnership or association in which the local public officer and his or
her immediate family, or any other person for the use or benefit of the
local public officer and his or her immediate family, have an investment
or holding of over $1,000 at the fair market value as of the date of the
statement, or in which the local public officer or his or her immediate
family hold office, or have a fiduciary relationship together with the
description of the investment, office or relationship, except that this
division does not require disclosure of the name of any bank or other
financial institution with which the local public officer or member of
his or her immediate family has a deposit or withdrawal share account;

      (4)   All real property interests located within the limits of the
City of Apache Junction, Arizona, including street address, specific
location, and approximate size or legal description, to which either the
local public officer or his or her immediate family hold legal title, or
beneficial interest in, excluding his or her residence and property used
primarily for personal recreation by the local public officer or his or
her immediate family;

      (5)   The names of all persons to whom the local public officer
and his or her immediate family owe unsecured personal debts in excess
of $1,000 and the names of all persons who owe the local public officer
and his or her immediate family unsecured personal debts in excess of
$1,000;

      (6)   The source of each gift of more than $500 received by the
local public officer and his or her immediate family in their own names
during the preceding twelve months, or by any other person for the use
or benefit of the local public officer or his or her immediate family,
except gifts received by will or by virtue of intestate succession, or
received by way of distribution from any inter vivos or testamentary
trust established by a spouse or by an ancestor, or gifts received from
relatives. Political contributions shall not be construed as gifts;

      (7)   A description of all of the professional, occupational and
business licenses in which either a local public officer or his or her
immediate family has an interest issued by the City of Apache Junction,
Arizona, or by any Arizona State Department, agency, commission,
institution or instrumentality, which requires for its issuance the
consideration of the application by the Mayor and Council, including the
name in which the license is issued, the type of business or profession,
and its location; and

      (8)   A description of all professional, occupational and business
licenses in which either a public officer or his or her immediate family
has an interest, issued by any Arizona State Department, agency,
commission, institution or instrumentality, including the name in which
the license is issued, the type of business, or profession, and its
location.

   (B)   The statement required to be filed pursuant to this section
shall be filed by each local public officer on or before January 31, of
each year hereafter.

(Prior Code, § 2-13-2)

Statutory reference:

   Related state law provisions, see A.R.S. §§ 38-452 et seq.

§ 2-13-3 DUTY TO FILE FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT BY A CANDIDATE FOR
THE COUNCIL.

   A candidate for a local public office shall file a financial
disclosure statement containing the information required as set forth in
Vol. I, § 2-13-2 on forms prescribed by the City Clerk, at the time of
filing his or her signed nomination papers.

(Prior Code, § 2-13-3)

ARTICLE 2-14: REQUESTS FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

Section

   2-14-1   Requests for non-profit funding

   2-14-2   Requests for financial assistance

§ 2-14-1 REQUESTS FOR NON-PROFIT FUNDING.

   (A)   Required documentation. Any non-profit agency submitting a
request for an allocation or grant of city funds shall submit to the
city specific documentation including, but not limited to, the
following: A copy of the agency's most recent audit report; a certified
copy of the agency's most recent financial statement; detailed
expenditure statements in order to provide a detailed accounting of all
funds previously received from the city; complete information on the
source and amount of funding received from all other sources such as
non-governmental agencies, membership fees and dues, and private
contributions; client service information as it applies to residents of
the city; proof of non-profit status as determined by the Internal
Revenue Service; proof of corporate status to include copies of by-laws
and articles of incorporation; the source and amount of funding received
from other governmental agencies; the names and addresses of current
board members; and any other documentation as may be deemed necessary by
the city.

   (B)   Reporting requirements. Any non-profit agency receiving an
allocation or grant of city funds shall be required to submit to the
city, on a quarterly basis, a detailed accounting of the expenditure of
city funds for the previous quarter, a written report outlining the
agency's performance and accomplishments within the scope of work
outlined in their contractual agreement with the city, and any other
documentation as may be deemed necessary by the city in order to
determine the agency's compliance with the provisions of the contract.

   (C)   Contract required; procedure for distribution of funds.

      (1)   All city funds allocated or granted to any non-profit agency
shall be by means of a written contract based upon services to be
provided to or work to be performed on behalf of the city and its
residents in compliance with the provisions of Arizona Revised Statutes
regarding the use of public funds.

      (2)   All city funds allocated or granted under the provisions of
this section shall be released in equal quarterly installments or
quarterly payments based upon a schedule of anticipated expenses which
has been approved by the Mayor and Council. No subsequent quarterly
allocation or grant shall be released until such time that the receiving
agency has provided all of the required documentation for the previous
quarter and has provided satisfactory evidence of compliance with the
scope of work stipulated in their contract with the city.

   (D)   Submittal of requests for funding. All funding requests
submitted by non-profit agencies for the allocation or grant of city
funds shall be submitted to the City Clerk's office during the month of
January of each year. Requests so submitted shall not be subject to city
funding unless approved by the Council and only following adoption of a
final budget for the subsequent fiscal year.

(Ord. 659, passed 11-3-1998)

§ 2-14-2 REQUESTS FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.

   All requests for financial assistance shall comply with the following
stipulations and conditions:

   (A)   All requests shall be filed by or on behalf of a valid,
non-profit organization as qualified by the Internal Revenue Service and
as registered with the Arizona Secretary of State, Arizona Corporation
Commission or other appropriate state office. The registration shall be
current and documentation of such status and registration shall be
provided at the time of the request. This article shall not apply to
governmental or quasi-governmental jurisdictions;

   (B)   All requests shall be submitted to the City Clerk during the
month of January of each year in order to be eligible for consideration
in conjunction with the subsequent fiscal year budget;

   (C)   All requests received in accordance with division (B) above
shall be referred to the appropriate city board or commission for
purposes of review and recommendation to the Council; and

   (D)   In those instances where a request is due to catastrophic
circumstances or when the public health, safety and welfare is at risk,
the requirements of this article may be waived by action of the Council.
It is preferable, however, even in such instances, for the request to
receive a review and recommendation from the appropriate city board or
commission.

(Prior Code, Art. 2-14)

ARTICLE 2-15: INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Section

   2-15-1   Creation

   2-15-2   Membership and terms of office

   2-15-3   Officers

   2-15-4   Vacancies

   2-15-5   Quorum

§ 2-15-1 CREATION.

   There is hereby established an industrial development authority,
hereinafter referred to as "authority," which shall perform all duties
reserved to industrial development authorities as contained in state and
federal regulations.

(Prior Code, § 2-15-1)

§ 2-15-2 MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS OF OFFICE.

   (A)   The industrial development authority shall consist of 7 members
who shall be appointed by the Council.

   (B)   After the expiration of initial appointments, the terms of
members shall be as follows: 2 members with terms beginning from their
appointment and expiring 6 years from the date of appointment by the
Council; 3 members with terms beginning from their date of appointment
and expiring 6 years from the date of appointment by the Council; and 2
members with terms beginning from their date of appointment and expiring
6 years from the date of appointment by the Council. All member terms
shall be for a period of 6 years, and shall be so staggered that the
term of no more than 3 members shall expire in any given year. All terms
shall expire on October 31 of succeeding years, except that in the event
of the Board membership complement falling below the required quorum
level set forth in § 2-15-5, the membership vacancies shall be filled by
the Council for their unexpired terms any time before the annual October
appointment cycle from the then-existing talent bank applications.

(Prior Code, § 2-15-2) (Am. Ord. 1328, passed 10-27-2008; Am. Ord. 1520,
passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-15-3 OFFICERS.

   The authority shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from
among its members. The Vice Chairperson shall preside at meetings in the
absence of the Chairperson. All officers shall serve until their
successors are elected.

(Prior Code, § 2-15-3)

§ 2-15-4 VACANCIES.

   Vacancies shall be filled in accordance with Vol. I, § 2-15-2 by the
Council for the unexpired term of the member affected.

(Prior Code, § 2-15-4)

§ 2-15-5 QUORUM.

   A quorum shall consist of 4 voting members for the transaction of all
business.

(Prior Code, § 2-15-5)

ARTICLE 2-16: EMERGENCY POWERS AND AUTHORITY

Section

   2-16-1   Definitions

   2-16-2   Powers

   2-16-3   Duties of the City Manager

   2-16-4   Enforcement

   2-16-5   Immunity

   2-16-6   Conditions of enactment

§ 2-16-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   EMERGENCY FUNCTIONS. Warning and communications services, relocation
of persons from stricken areas, radiological defense, temporary
restoration of utilities, plant protection, transportation, welfare,
public works and engineering, search or rescue, health and medical
services, law enforcement, firefighting, mass care, resource support,
urban search or rescue, hazardous materials, food and energy information
and planning and other activities necessary or incidental thereto.

   EMERGENCY SERVICES. The preplanning necessary to carry out emergency
functions, other than functions for which military force of federal
agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent or minimize the loss of
lives or property caused by disasters of every kind.

   LOCAL EMERGENCY. The existence of conditions of disaster or of
extreme peril to the safety of persons or property within the
territorial limits of the City of Apache Junction, which conditions are
or are likely to be beyond the control of the services, personnel,
equipment and facilities of the city as determined by the Council and
which require the combined efforts of other political subdivisions.

   PRIVATE SECTOR. All industry, commerce, business or banking; all
services other than those provided by the government; and all persons
other than those in governmental agencies at any level.

   STATE OF EMERGENCY. The duly proclaimed existence of conditions of
disaster or of extreme peril to the safety of persons or property within
the state caused by air pollution, fire, flood or floodwater, storm,
epidemic, riot, earthquake or other causes, except those resulting in a
state of war emergency, which are or are likely to be beyond the control
of the services, personnel, equipment and facilities of any single
county, city or town, and which require the combined efforts of the
state and the political subdivision.

   STATE OF WAR EMERGENCY. The condition which exists immediately
whenever this nation is attacked or upon receipt by this state of
warning from the federal government indicating that such an attack is
imminent.

(Prior Code, § 2-16-1)

§ 2-16-2 POWERS.

   (A)   The Council, pursuant to the provisions of A.R.S. § 26-307, has
the power to make, amend and rescind orders, rules and regulations
necessary for emergency functions and regulations, but such shall not be
inconsistent with orders, rules and regulations promulgated by the
governor of this state. Those orders, rules or regulations shall be
effective when a copy is filed in the office of the City Clerk. Existing
resolutions, rules and regulations in conflict with A.R.S. §§ 26-301 et
seq. and hereafter amended, are suspended during the time of emergency
and to the extent that they may conflict.

   (B)   Pursuant to A.R.S. § 26-307(C) as amended, a state of war
emergency, the Council may waive procedures and formalities otherwise
required by law pertaining to the performance of public work, entering
into contracts, incurring obligations, employing permanent and temporary
workers, utilizing volunteer workers, renting equipment, purchasing and
distributing supplies, materials and facilities and appropriating and
expending public funds when the Council determines and declares that
strict compliance with such procedures and formalities may prevent,
hinder or delay mitigation of the effects of the state of war emergency.

   (C)   In the absence of specific authority in state emergency plans
and programs, the Council will take emergency measures as deemed
necessary to carry out the provisions of A.R.S.§ 26-307(D) and as
hereafter amended.

   (D)   This article constitutes authority, pursuant to the provisions
of A.R.S. § 26-311, for the Mayor to declare an emergency and, during
the emergency, to govern by proclamation and to impose all necessary
regulations to preserve the peace and order of the city including, but
not limited to:

      (1)   Imposition of curfews in all or portions of the city;

      (2)   Ordering the closing of any business;

      (3)   Closing to public any public building, street or other
public place; and

      (4)   Calling upon regular or auxiliary law enforcement agencies
and organizations within or without the County of Pinal for assistance.

   (E)   Pursuant to A.R.S. § 26-311(C), in periods of local emergency,
including an emergency declared by the Mayor, the city has full power to
provide mutual aid to any affected area in accordance with local
ordinances, resolutions, emergency plans or agreements therefor.

(Prior Code, § 2-16-2)

§ 2-16-3 DUTIES OF THE CITY MANAGER.

   (A)   The City Manager, subject to the direction and control of the
Council, shall be responsible for the organization, administration and
operation of the City of Apache Junction Emergency Services. In
accordance with the provision of A.R.S. § 26-312, the City Manager may,
on behalf of the city, accept for purposes of emergency services an
offer of the federal government or an agency thereof, or an offer of any
person, firm or corporation of services, equipment, supplies, material
or funds, whether by gift, grant or loan.

   (B)   There is hereby granted to the City Manager the authority:

      (1)   During non-emergency periods to:

         (a)   Coordinate city emergency service plans, procedures,
programs and other emergency services activities with federal agencies,
the State of Arizona, adjoining county agencies, political subdivisions
and municipalities of the state and with the private sector;

         (b)   Ensure compliance with the provisions of A.R.S. §§ 26-301
et seq.;

         (c)   Ensure conformance with state emergency plans and
procedures;

         (d)   Achieve adequate operational readiness, adequacy of
training programs and proper utilization of emergency equipment and
supplies;

         (e)   Make such studies and surveys of the private sector as
may be necessary to ascertain the capabilities of the city for emergency
services, and to plan for the most efficient use thereof; and

         (f)   Recommend to the Mayor, for delegation to the various
departments and agencies of the city, appropriate emergency services
responsibilities, and to coordinate the emergency activities of all such
departments and agencies.

      (2)   During declared emergencies to:

         (a)   Coordinate the emergency activities of all city
departments and agencies;

         (b)   Coordinate the emergency activities of the city with
federal agencies, the State of Arizona, adjoining county agencies,
political subdivisions and municipalities of the state and with the
private sector to achieve the most effective use of personnel,
equipment, services, facilities and other existing available resources;
and

         (c)   Utilize the services, resources and facilities of
existing departments and agencies of the city, and when necessary to
create new agencies or call upon the private sector to perform emergency
tasks and functions unavailable in departments and agencies of the city.

(Prior Code, § 2-16-3)

§ 2-16-4 ENFORCEMENT.

   The law enforcement authorities of the city shall enforce all orders,
rules and regulations issued pursuant to this article.

(Prior Code, § 2-16-4)

§ 2-16-5 IMMUNITY.

   The city, its officers, agents, employees, volunteers duly enrolled
or registered with the city emergency services and unregistered persons
placed into service during a state of war emergency are immune from
liability as provided in A.R.S. § 26-314.

(Prior Code, § 2-16-5)

§ 2-16-6 CONDITIONS OF ENACTMENT.

   The emergency plan, as adopted by the Council, will be the immediate
basis for the conduct and coordination of emergency operations in the
city under the following disaster conditions:

   (A)   Upon declaration of a state of war by the President of the
United States;

   (B)   When the governor of the State of Arizona has proclaimed a
state of emergency in an area including this city; or

   (C)   Upon the order of the Mayor or his or her authorized
representative, provided that the existence or threatened existence of a
local emergency has been duly proclaimed in accordance with the
provisions of the emergency services of this city.

(Prior Code, § 2-16-6)

ARTICLE 2-17: RESERVED

[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 2-18: RESERVED

[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 2-19: RESERVED

[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 2-20: RESERVED

[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 2-21: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS/MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
CORPORATION/PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL RETIREMENT BOARD

Section

   2-21-1   Board of Adjustment and Appeals

   2-21-2   Municipal Property Corporation

   2-21-3   Public Safety Personnel Retirement Board

§ 2-21-1 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.

   There is hereby created, as provided by law, a Board of Adjustment
for the city. The Board of Adjustment shall be composed of 7 members,
each of whom shall be a resident of the city. The members of the Board
shall be appointed for terms of 3 years each, unless sooner removed by
the Council. Members shall be appointed for terms of 3 years, such terms
shall expire on October 31 of succeeding years, except that in the event
of the Board membership complement falling below the required quorum
level of 4 members, the membership vacancies shall be filled by the
Council for their unexpired terms any time before the annual October
appointment cycle from the then-existing talent bank applications. The
procedures and powers of the Board of Adjustment shall be as set forth
in Vol. II, Article 1-11.

(Ord. 1328, passed 10-27-2008; Am. Ord. 1520, passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-21-2 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY CORPORATION.

   Resolution No. 90-16, passed on July 19, 1990, is incorporated herein
by reference. The resolution approved the articles of incorporation and
bylaws of the Municipal Property Corporation ("MPC") and appointed the
incorporators and initial board of directors. There are 5 directors.
Each term shall be 3 years and shall have an expiration date of October
31 of succeeding years, except that in the event of the Board membership
complement falling below the required quorum level of 3 members, the
membership vacancies shall be filled by the Council for their unexpired
terms any time before the annual October appointment cycle from the
then-existing talent bank applications.

(Ord. 1328, passed 10-27-2008; Am. Ord. 1520, passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-21-3 PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL RETIREMENT BOARD.

   (A)   Pursuant to A.R.S. § 38-847(A), the city has previously
established a local board to administer public safety personnel
retirement matters under Title 38, Chapter 5, Article 4 (A.R.S. §§
38-841 et seq.). The Board shall be composed of 5 members comprised of
the Mayor, two sworn police officers, and two citizens.

   (B)   Under A.R.S. § 38-847(B), a term for any appointed member shall
be for a period of 4 years, with an expiration date of October 31 of
succeeding years unless sooner removed by the Council, either with or
without cause. The terms of the members shall be so staggered that no
more than 2 members shall expire in any one year.

   (C)   In the event that the Board membership complement falls below
the 5-member board, the City Council may fill the vacancy before the
annual October appointment cycle from the then-existing talent bank or
solicit application/applicants to maintain the balance of
representation.

(Ord. 1328, passed 10-27-2008; Am. Ord. 1520, passed 12-7-2021; Am. Ord.
1552, passed 10-15-2024)

ARTICLE 2-22: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION

Section

   2-22-1   Established

   2-22-2   Membership

   2-22-3   Officers

   2-22-4   Duties

   2-22-5   Meetings

   2-22-6   Voting

   2-22-7   Fees

§ 2-22-1 ESTABLISHED.

   The Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Apache Junction is
hereby established.

(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)

§ 2-22-2 MEMBERSHIP.

   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be composed of a total
of 7 members who shall be residents of the city. The members of the
Commission shall be appointed by the Council. These appointments shall
be for a period of 3 years, unless sooner removed by the Council, either
with or without cause. The terms of the members shall be so staggered
that the terms of no more than 3 members shall expire in any 1 year.
Upon expiration of the term of office, all new appointments shall be
made by the Council for full 3-year terms, and all terms shall expire
October 31, except that in the event of the Board membership complement
falling below the required quorum level set forth in § 2-22-6, the
membership vacancies shall be filled by the Council for their unexpired
terms any time before the annual October appointment cycle from the
then-existing talent bank applications. The term of all members shall
extend until their successors are qualified; except that 3 successive
unexcused or unexplained absences from any regular or special meeting
shall be grounds for termination at the will and pleasure of the Council
without the necessity of a hearing or notice and such action shall be
final.

   (B)   All members shall serve without pay. Members of the Commission
may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their
duties upon prior authorization or ratification by the Commission and
approval of the expenditures by the Council.

(Prior Code, § 11-1-2) (Am. Ord. 1328, passed 10-27-2008; Am. Ord. 1520,
passed 12-7-2021)

§ 2-22-3 OFFICERS.

   (A)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
from among its own members, who shall serve for 1 year and until their
successors are elected and qualified.

   (B)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings and exercise all
the usual rights, duties and prerogatives of the head of any similar
organization.

   (C)   The Chairperson shall have the power to administer oaths and to
take evidence.

   (D)   The Vice Chairperson shall perform the duties of the
Chairperson in the absence or disability of the Chairperson.

   (E)   Vacancies created by any cause shall be filled for the
unexpired term by a new election.

(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)

§ 2-22-4 DUTIES.

   It shall be the duty of the Commission to:

   (A)   Formulate, create and administer any lawful plan duly adopted
by the governing body for the present and future growth of the city
pertaining to the use of land and buildings for any purpose, together
with all incidental activities usually associated therewith and commonly
known as "Planning and Zoning;"

   (B)   To make or cause to be made a continuous study of the best
present and future use to which land and buildings shall be put within
the city and in cooperation with adjacent areas;

   (C)   To recommend to the governing body revisions in the plans
which, in the opinion of the commission, are for the best interest of
the citizens of the city; and

   (D)   To promulgate rules of procedure and to supervise the
enforcement of rules so promulgated by the Commission and approved by
the governing body.

(Prior Code, § 11-1-4)

§ 2-22-5 MEETINGS.

   The Commission shall provide in its rules for its meetings; provided,
that special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or in his or her
absence the Vice Chairperson. In addition, any 3 members of the
Commission may make written request to the Chairperson for a special
meeting and in the event the meeting is not called, the members may call
the special meetings in such manner and form as may be provided in the
Commission rules.

(Prior Code, § 11-1-5)

§ 2-22-6 VOTING.

   (A)   Four voting members shall constitute a quorum.

   (B)   A simple majority of the quorum voting shall be required for
passage of any matter before the Commission.

   (C)   The minutes of the meetings shall reflect the "ayes" and "nays"
cast on a particular measure and shall reflect the vote of each member
present.

   (D)   A member may abstain from voting only upon a declaration that
he or she has a conflict of interest, in which case that member shall
take no part in the deliberations on the matter in question.

(Prior Code, § 11-1-6)

§ 2-22-7 FEES.

   (A)   The Commission shall be authorized to establish a uniform
schedule of fees for service with all receipts to be paid into the
general fund of the city.

   (B)   These fee schedules shall become effective upon approval by the
Council.

(Prior Code, § 11-1-7)

CHAPTER 3: ADMINISTRATION

      Article

         3-1.   CITY MANAGER

         3-2.   DEPARTMENT OF CITY CLERK

         3-3.   DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

         3-4.   [RESERVED]

         3-5.   DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

         3-6.   DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

         3-7.   PROCUREMENT PROCEDURE

         3-8.   [RESERVED]

         3-9.   DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT SERVICES

         3-10.   PERSONNEL SYSTEM

         3-11.   DEPARTMENT OF THE LIBRARY

         3-12.   [RESERVED]

         3-13.   DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION

         3-14.   PROPERTY DISPOSITION

ARTICLE 3-1: CITY MANAGER

Section

   3-1-1   Definitions

   3-1-2   Office of City Manager created

   3-1-3   Residence

   3-1-4   Eligibility

   3-1-5   Bond

   3-1-6   Acting City Manager

   3-1-7   Compensation

   3-1-8   Power and duties

   3-1-9   Internal relations

   3-1-10   Removal procedures

   3-1-11   Agreements on employment

§ 3-1-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Apache Junction, Arizona.

   RATIFICATION. By the Council, is required under this chapter, it
shall be effected only by a majority vote of the 7-member Council, as
then constituted, convened in a regular or special Council meeting.

(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)

§ 3-1-2 OFFICE OF CITY MANAGER CREATED.

   The Office of the City Manager of the City of Apache Junction is
hereby created and established. The City Manager shall be appointed by
the Council wholly on the basis of his or her administrative and
executive ability and qualifications and shall hold office for and at
the pleasure of the Council, subject to any agreements on employment
entered into pursuant to Vol. I, § 3-1-11.

(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)

§ 3-1-3 RESIDENCE.

   Residence in the city at the time of appointment of a City Manager
shall not be required as a condition of the appointment, but within 120
days after reporting for work the City Manager must become a resident of
the city unless the Council approves his or her residence outside the
city.

(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)

§ 3-1-4 ELIGIBILITY.

   No member of the Council shall be eligible for appointment as City
Manager until 1 year has elapsed after the Council member shall have
ceased to be a member of the Council.

(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)

§ 3-1-5 BOND.

   The City Manager shall furnish a corporate surety bond to be approved
by the Council in such sum as may be determined by the Council, and
shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties imposed
upon the City Manager as herein described. Any premium for such bond
shall be a proper charge against the city.

(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)

§ 3-1-6 ACTING CITY MANAGER.

   (A)   In the event of the absence or disability of the City Manager,
the powers and duties of that office shall fall upon such person as the
City Manager shall designate.

   (B)   In the event of a vacancy in the Office of City Manager such as
that created by termination, resignation or death, the Council may
assign the powers and duties of the office of City Manager to another
person until such time that the City Manager shall be replaced. If such
circumstances occur, the Council shall be obligated to immediately
commence proceedings to seek a permanent replacement for the City
Manager.

(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)

§ 3-1-7 COMPENSATION.

   (A)   The City Manager shall receive such compensation as the Council
shall from time to time determine. In addition, the City Manager shall
be reimbursed for all actual and necessary expenses incurred by him or
her in the performance of his or her official duties.

   (B)   Upon termination of the City Manager by reason of involuntary
removal from office for other than willful misconduct in office or
conviction of a felony offense, the City Manager shall receive payment
for all accrued regular working hours, all accrued vacation hours and
such severance pay as established by contract.

(Prior Code, § 3-1-7)

§ 3-1-8 POWERS AND DUTIES.

   The City Manager shall be the administrative head of the government
of the city under the direction and control of the Council. He or she
shall be responsible for the administration of all affairs of the city
which are under his or her control. In addition to his or her general
powers as administrative head, it shall be his or her duty and he or she
shall have the powers set forth in the following divisions.

   (A)   Law enforcement. It shall be the duty of the City Manager to
see that all laws and ordinances of the city, and that all franchises,
contracts, permits and privileges granted by the Council are faithfully
observed and to report any failure in that regard to the Council, which
shall give such instruction and direction as it may desire for remedial,
corrective or terminating action by the City Manager.

   (B)   Authority over employees. It shall be the duty of the City
Manager, and he or she shall have the sole authority to control, order
and give directions to all heads of departments and to subordinate
officers and employees of the city under his or her jurisdiction through
their department heads.

   (C)   Power of appointment and removal. Subject to the exceptions
expressly provided by this chapter, it shall be the duty of the City
Manager to appoint, remove, promote and demote any and all officers and
employees of the city. As to these officials, the City Manager shall
recommend appointment and removal. All department heads shall be
appointed subject to ratification by the Council, including the Director
of Public Works, Director of Development Services, Director of Public
Safety, City Clerk, and Finance Director. All such actions of the City
Manager shall be subject to all applicable personnel ordinances, rules
and regulations and statutes of the State of Arizona. The Magistrate,
City Attorney and members of the boards, commissions and committees,
shall be appointed by the Council and are not within the City Manager's
power or jurisdiction as noted above.

   (D)   Ordinances. It shall be the duty of the City Manager to
recommend to the Council for adoption, such measures and ordinances as
he or she deems necessary.

   (E)   Attendance at Council meetings. It shall be the duty of the
City Manager to attend all meetings of the Council unless he or she is
excused therefrom by the Mayor individually or by the Council, except
when his or her removal is under consideration. He or she shall present
definite recommendations relative to each item on the agenda for
approval, rejection or modification by the Council.

   (F)   Financial reports. It shall be the duty of the City Manager to
keep the Council fully advised as to the needs of the city in such form
and at such times as requested by the Council.

   (G)   Budget. It shall be the duty of the City Manager to prepare and
submit the proposed annual budget and the proposed annual salary plan to
the Council for its approval.

   (H)   Expenditure control and purchasing. It shall be the duty of the
City Manager to see that no indebtedness is incurred or expenditure made
in violation of the Arizona Constitution and the state budget law.

   (I)   Investigations and complaints. It shall be the duty of the City
Manager to make investigations into the affairs of the city and any
department or division thereof, and any contract or the proper
performance of any obligations of the city and to report all findings to
the Council. Further, it shall be the duty of the City Manager to
investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the city government and in regard to the service
maintained by public utilities in the city and report all findings to
the Council.

(Prior Code, § 3-1-8)

§ 3-1-9 INTERNAL RELATIONS.

   (A)   Council-Manager relations. The Council and its members shall
deal with the administrative services of the city only through the City
Manager, except for the purpose of inquiry, and neither the Council nor
any member thereof, shall give orders or instructions to any employee or
officer other than the City Manager. The City Manager shall take his or
her orders and instructions from the Council, only when promulgated at a
duly convened meeting of the Council, and no individual Council member
shall give any orders or instructions to the City Manager except for
purpose of inquiry.

   (B)   Attendance at Commission meetings. The City Manager may attend
any and all meetings of all commissions, boards or committees created by
the Council, upon his or her own volition or upon direction of the
Council. At such meetings which the City Manager attends, he or she
shall be heard by such commissions, boards or committees as to all
matters upon which he or she wishes to address the members thereof, and
he or she shall inform those members as to the status of any matter
being considered by the Council, and he or she shall cooperate to the
fullest extent with the members of all commissions, boards or committees
appointed by the Council.

(Prior Code, § 3-1-9)

§ 3-1-10 REMOVAL PROCEDURES.

   (A)   Removal of City Manager. The removal of the City Manager shall
be affected only by a majority vote (4 or more) of the 7-member Council
convened at a regular Council meeting or special Council meeting called
for that purpose.

   (B)   Suspension. After furnishing the City Manager with written
notice of removal, the Council may suspend the City Manager from duty,
but the City Manager's compensation shall continue until the effective
date of his or her termination.

   (C)   Notice of removal. The City Manager shall be furnished with
written notice stating the removal action of the Council. The City
Manager then may request within a 7-day period following delivery of the
written notice detailed reasons for the intended removal. The Council
may provide written detailed reasons for the removal which shall be
provided the City Manager within 7 days after receipt of such request
from the City Manager.

   (D)   Hearing. Within 7 days after the delivery to the City Manager
of the notice of removal, the City Manager may, by written notification
to the City Clerk, request a public hearing before the Council.
Thereafter, the Council may fix a time for the hearing which shall be
held at its usual place, but before the expiration of the 30-day period
at which the City Manager shall appear and be heard with or without
counsel.

   (E)   Discretion of Council. The Council shall act at its discretion
and its action is not dependent upon providing the City Manager a
hearing and should a hearing be held, its action shall not depend upon
any particular showing or degree of proof at the hearing.

   (F)   Resignation of City Manager. The City Manager shall provide the
Council with 30 days written notice of intention to resign his or her
position. The City Manager shall assist the Council in the recruitment
and selection of a replacement, if requested by the Council. In the
event of resignation due to health reasons, the period of written notice
shall be determined in conference between the City Manager and the
Council.

(Prior Code, § 3-1-10)

§ 3-1-11 AGREEMENTS ON EMPLOYMENT.

   Nothing in this article shall be construed as a limitation on the
power or authority of the Council to enter into any supplemental
agreement with the City Manager delineating additional terms and
conditions of employment not inconsistent with any provisions of this
article or of state statutes.

(Prior Code, § 3-1-11)

ARTICLE 3-2: DEPARTMENT OF CITY CLERK

Section

   3-2-1   Department established

   3-2-2   Bond

   3-2-3   Powers and duties

   3-2-4   Vacancies

   3-2-5   Divisions within the Department

   3-2-6   Deputy City Clerk

§ 3-2-1 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.

   (A)   The Department of the City Clerk of the City of Apache Junction
is hereby created and established. It shall be the duty of the City
Clerk to attend all meetings of the Council unless at his or her request
he or she is excused therefrom by the Mayor individually or by the
Council, and shall be responsible for recording the minutes and
presenting them to the Council for approval.

   (B)   (1)   The Department of the City Clerk shall consist of the
City Clerk, who shall be head of the department, and all other officers
and employees assigned thereto. All such officers and employees shall
perform their duties subject to the supervision of the City Clerk, who
shall report directly to the City Manager.

      (2)   The City Clerk shall supervise the department in accordance
with applicable personnel ordinances and shall exercise such powers and
perform such duties as are conferred and required by applicable
ordinance, resolution or other lawful directives. The City Clerk shall
be appointed and removed by the City Manager subject to ratification of
the Council, and shall serve and receive such compensation as shall be
determined in accordance with applicable personnel ordinances.

(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)

§ 3-2-2 BOND.

   Before entering upon his or her duties of office, the City Clerk
shall execute a bond in such amount as is provided by statute,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties. Any
premium for such bond shall be a proper charge against the city.

(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)

§ 3-2-3 POWERS AND DUTIES.

   (A)   Signatures. The City Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts
of the city and all licenses, permits and other documents as shall
require the formality.

   (B)   Money collected. The City Clerk shall turn over all money
received by him or her on behalf of the city to the City Finance
Director promptly upon receipt of the same; and with that money he or
she shall give a statement as to the source thereof.

   (C)   Records. In addition to the record of ordinances and other
records which the City Clerk is required by statute to keep, he or she
shall keep a register of all licenses and permits issued and payments
thereon; a record showing all of the officers of the city; a record
showing all appointed board and commission members; and other records as
may be required by the Council.

   (D)   Seal. The City Clerk shall be the custodian of the city seal
and shall affix its impression on documents whenever this is required.

   (E)   Documents. The City Clerk shall be the custodian of all
documents belonging to the city which are not assigned to the custody of
some other officer.

   (F)   Indices. The City Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index
to all documents and records kept by him or her, so that ready access
thereto and use thereof may be had.

   (G)   Elections. The City Clerk shall be the chief elections officer
of the city and shall perform all duties assigned in accordance with
state statute and local ordinance.

   (H)   Licensing and taxation. The City Clerk shall be responsible for
coordinating city business licensing programs as permitted under state
statutes and local ordinances.

   (I)   Ex-officio treasurer. The City Clerk shall be designated
ex-officio treasurer in accordance with A.R.S. § 9-27-1(B)(3)(a).

   (J)   Additional duties. In addition to the duties herein provided
the City Clerk shall perform other duties and functions as may be
required by statute or ordinance.

(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) (Am. Ord. 1529, passed 10-18-2022)

§ 3-2-4 VACANCIES.

   In case the office of City Clerk shall become vacant for any reason,
the City Manager shall appoint a successor subject to ratification of
the Council.

(Prior Code, § 3-2-4)

§ 3-2-5 DIVISIONS WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT.

   (A)   There are hereby created within the Department of City Clerk
the division of business licensing.

   (B)   Any division superintendents and section heads shall be
appointed and removed by the City Clerk, subject to ratification of the
City Manager and the provisions of Vol. I, Article 3-10 as it now exists
or may hereafter be amended.

(Prior Code, § 3-2-5) (Am. Ord. 1529, passed 10-18-2022)

§ 3-2-6 DEPUTY CITY CLERK.

   (A)   The City Clerk shall appoint a Deputy City Clerk who shall have
the power and duty to execute all documents required by any law or
ordinance to be executed by the City Clerk, and affix the seal of the
city thereto whenever required.

   (B)   When signing any documents the Deputy City Clerk shall sign the
name of the City Clerk followed by the word "By" and the Deputy City
Clerk's own name and the words "Deputy City Clerk."

   (C)   The powers and duties herein described shall be exercised by
such Deputy City Clerk only in the absence of the City Clerk from his or
her office in the city hall, and only when either written direction has
been given by the City Clerk to exercise such power, or the City Manager
has determined that the City Clerk is temporarily or permanently
incapacitated to perform such function.

   (D)   The Deputy City Clerk shall have the authority and power herein
described, and such further power and authority as may be provided by
statute.

(Prior Code, § 3-2-6)

ARTICLE 3-3: DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

Section

   3-3-1   Department established

   3-3-2   Powers and duties

   3-3-3   Vacancies

§ 3-3-1 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.

   (A)   There is hereby created the Department of Finance. This
Department shall consist of the Director of Finance who shall be the
head of the department and all other officers and employees assigned
thereto.

   (B)   All the officers and employees shall perform their duties
subject to the supervision of the Director of Finance who shall report
directly to the City Manager. The Director of Finance shall supervise
his or her office in accordance with the applicable personnel ordinances
and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are
customarily conferred and required by applicable ordinance, resolution
or lawful directive.

   (C)   The Director of Finance shall be appointed and removed by the
City Manager subject to ratification of the Council and shall serve and
receive such compensation as shall be determined in accordance with the
applicable personnel ordinance.

(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)

§ 3-3-2 POWERS AND DUTIES.

   It shall be the duty of the Department of Finance to:

   (A)   Plan, direct and control the operations of the finance office,
including department personnel, reporting, coordination of activities
and organizational and performance reviews of central accounting
systems, including pre-audit, internal audit, posting of expenditure,
accounting controls, fiscal and capital budget, payroll, data
processing, purchasing, procurement, investment program, insurance
program, bond program and sales tax collection and auditing programs as
permitted under state statutes;

   (B)   Direct receipt, deposit and investment of all city monies,
together with records thereof;

   (C)   Keep accounts showing all money received and the source and
disposition thereof and other such accounts as may be required by
statute or ordinance. To keep the City Manager/Council fully advised as
to the financial condition of the city with the preparation of revenue,
expenditure, debt, cost and other statements in such form and in such
manner as requested by the Council;

   (D)   Direct the recording of all physical properties of the city and
the department or office to which the respective properties are
assigned; and

   (E)   Direct the maintenance of all special assessment records and
administer the collection of special assessments, including enforcement,
collecting and auditing.

(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) (Am. Ord. 1529, passed 10-18-2022)

§ 3-3-3 VACANCIES.

   In case the position of Director of Finance shall become vacant for
any reason, the City Manager shall appoint a successor subject to
ratification by the Council.

(Prior Code, § 3-3-3)

ARTICLE 3-4: RESERVED

[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 3-5: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

Section

   3-5-1   Department established

   3-5-2   Divisions of department

   3-5-3   Powers and duties

   3-5-4   Division of operations

   3-5-5   Division of engineering

   3-5-6   Assignment and custody of physical properties

   3-5-7   Advice and assistance

§ 3-5-1 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.

   (A)   There is hereby created the Department of Public Works, an
executive department of the city. It shall consist of the Director of
Public Works who shall be the head of the department and all officers
and employees assigned thereto.

   (B)   All such officers and employees shall perform their duties
subject to the supervision of the director, who shall operate solely
under the guidance and direction of and report directly to the City
Manager.

   (C)   The Director of Public Works shall supervise his or her
department in accordance with the applicable personnel ordinances and
Vol. I, Article 3-10 and shall exercise such powers and perform such
duties as are customarily conferred and required by Vol. I, applicable
ordinances, resolutions or lawful directives.

   (D)   The position of the Director of Public Works is hereby declared
as classified service, and he or she shall be appointed and removed by
the City Manager subject to ratification of the Council; and shall serve
and receive such compensation as shall be determined in accordance with
the applicable city rules and regulations.

(Prior Code, § 3-5-1) (Am. Ord. 1360, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 3-5-2 DIVISIONS OF DEPARTMENT.

   (A)   There is hereby created within the Department of Public Works,
the Division of Operations and the Division of Engineering.

   (B)   Division superintendents and section heads shall be appointed
and removed by the Director of Public Works subject to the ratification
of the City Manager and provisions of Vol. I, Article 3-10 as it now
exists or may be hereafter amended.

(Prior Code, § 3-5-2) (Am. Ord. 1360, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 3-5-3 POWERS AND DUTIES.

   (A)   In addition to those duties set forth in this article, the
Department of Public Works, or his or her designee, shall have charge of
and supervision over the care, maintenance, design, inspection and
construction of all streets, sidewalks, alleys and public ways and
determination for and placement of all street signage and traffic
control devices; the design, inspection, construction, operation and
maintenance of all storm water and sanitary sewer systems and
facilities, and all street gutters, drains, drainage ways, water and
wastewater treatment facilities, improvement districts, easements and
the appurtenances thereto; the care, maintenance and construction of all
public buildings; the operation, maintenance and construction of all
other public works projects and improvements within the jurisdiction of
the city.

   (B)   The Department of Public Works Director, or his or her
designee, may also be responsible for, or oversight of, the construction
of all streets, sidewalks, alleys, public ways, sanitary sewers, street
gutters, drains, drainage ways, wastewater treatment facilities,
improvement district easements and appurtenances thereto.

(Prior Code, § 3-5-3) (Am. Ord. 1360, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 3-5-4 DIVISION OF OPERATIONS.

   (A)   There is hereby created the Division of Public Works
Operations, consisting of the Public Works Manager, who shall be the
head of the division, and all officers and employees assigned thereto.
All such officers and employees shall perform their duties subject to
the supervision of the Public Works Manager, who shall operate solely
under the guidance and direction of and report directly to the Director
of Public Works. The Public Works Manager shall supervise his or her
department in accordance with the applicable personnel ordinances and
shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are required by
Vol. I, applicable ordinances, resolutions or lawful directives.

   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Public Works Manager, or his or her
designee, to evaluate the condition of city streets, to maintain records
regarding the repair and maintenance of city streets, to supervise those
workers engaged in the repair, maintenance and construction of streets,
buildings, grounds and city vehicles; to assist or make the final
walk-through on all off-site construction and utility construction
before the recommendation for city acceptance; to coordinate barricading
for special events or emergencies with law enforcement officials; and to
make routine checks on city streets, buildings, grounds and vehicles to
ensure that they are in good repair and safe for public use.

(Prior Code, § 3-5-4) (Am. Ord. 1360, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 3-5-5 DIVISION OF ENGINEERING.

   (A)   There is hereby created the Division of Engineering, which
shall be under the supervision of the City Engineer, or his or her
designee, who shall be responsible for the design and inspection of all
city streets, the determination for and placement of all street signage
and traffic control devices, sidewalks, alleys and public ways, storm
water and sanitary sewer system and facilities, street gutters, drains,
drainage ways, water and wastewater treatment facilities, improvement
districts, easements and the appurtenances thereto and administration of
encroachment permits under this code.

(Prior Code, § 3-5-5)

   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Engineer to:

      (1)   Provide professional and technical expertise to assist the
Public Works Director in the performance of those duties assigned to the
Public Works Director; and

      (2)   Perform such other programs or functions related to public
works, public improvements, traffic, street signs and traffic control
devices, floodplain administration, drainage and private development
that the Public Works Director may, from time to time, authorize or
request.

   (C)   The Public Works Director may also appoint a Traffic Engineer,
or assign his or her duties to an appropriate and qualified employee,
who will be responsible for the following:

      (1)   As authorized by state law, to determine appropriate
locations for stop signs, yield, u-turn and other right-of-way signs and
other traffic control devices and operations;

      (2)   To establish speed limits for city streets as necessary for
public safety in accordance with state law;

      (3)   Designate certain streets as a street prohibited for use by
trucks in excess of the weight listed in Chapter 12 of Vol. I;

      (4)   Issue permits for use on city streets for tires and
associated tire equipment not normally allowed on city streets pursuant
to A.R.S. § 28-958(G);

      (5)   Establish “no parking” zones, “loading zones” and “bus
stops” and other parking limitations relating to time, place, manner or
type of vehicle restrictions;

      (6)   Authorize and install traffic calming devices pursuant to
adopted City Council policy; and

      (7)   Keep accurate records of all parking zones, including
loading zones, established hereunder and shall designate on a map kept
for such purpose the location of all such zones throughout the city.

   (D)   The Public Works Director, or his or her designee, shall
recommend for Council adoption, standards, specifications and
regulations regarding public works improvements. In the event there is a
conflict between or among any of the standards, specifications and
regulations adopted herein by reference, a city code standard,
specification or regulation shall prevail over any standard,
specification or regulation prepared by another entity.

Regardless of the designations contained in any standards, details or
specifications adopted by reference, roadway right-of-way enforcement
procedures and roadway right-of-way inspections provided for, shall be
the responsibility of the Public Works Director, or his or her designee.

   (E)   The Public Works Director, or his or her designee, may approve
alternate materials or methods of construction provided he or she finds
the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the
adopted standard, detail or specification and the proposed material is
for the purpose intended, and at least the equivalent of that prescribed
in the adopted standard, detail or specification, in quality, strength,
effectiveness, durability and safety.

   (F)   The following codes and regulations shall be followed and
enforced by the Public Works Department in the creation and maintenance
of public property:

      (1)   City of Apache Junction Engineering Guidelines set forth
under Apache Junction City Code, Volume II, Chapter 10, as amended;

      (2)   The most current version of the Uniform Standard
Specifications and Details for Public Works Construction Sponsored and
Distributed by the Maricopa Association of Governments (“MAG” Standard
Specifications and Details), with the following modifications:

         (a)   The Public Works Director, or his or her designee, is
authorized to increase standard street cross sections, both pavement and
right-of-way widths, as necessary to maintain required traffic service
levels when a traffic analysis indicates the need for additional lanes
of traffic; and

         (b)   Where MAG refers to corrective actions for deviations
from standards and provides options for when the contracting agency is
the owner or when the contracting agency is not the owner, the Public
Works Director/designee is authorized to utilize any of the corrective
actions listed regardless of whether the city is the contracting agency
or not.

      (3)   The most current version of the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices for Streets and Highways (“MUTCD”); and

      (4)   The most current version of the Policy on Geometric Design
of Highways and Streets.

(Prior Code, § 3-5-5) (Am. Ord. 1360, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 3-5-6 ASSIGNMENT AND CUSTODY OF PHYSICAL PROPERTIES.

   (A)   All physical properties of the city, including any municipal
utilities, systems and facilities and those physical properties not
assigned to some other department or officer, shall be assigned to the
Department of Public Works.

   (B)   The Department of Public Works shall be the custodian of all
tools, equipment and other municipal property assigned to the Department
of Public Works.

(Prior Code, § 3-5-6) (Am. Ord. 1360, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 3-5-7 ADVICE AND ASSISTANCE.

   The Department of Public Works shall provide technical and
operational advice and assistance to, and cooperate with, all other
departments, boards, commissions, offices or other official entities of
the city.

(Prior Code, § 3-5-7) (Am. Ord. 1360, passed 4-6-2010)

ARTICLE 3-6: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

Section

   3-6-1   Department established

   3-6-2   Function of Department

   3-6-3   Duties of Director; appointment and dismissal

   3-6-4   Divisions of Department

   3-6-5   Policies, procedures and orders

   3-6-6   Status of members

§ 3-6-1 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.

   There is hereby created the Department of Public Safety. It shall
include a Director who shall lead the department and shall manage all
officers and employees assigned thereto. The Director shall also hold
the title of "Police Chief." All officers and employees under the Police
Chief's command shall perform their duties subject to the supervision of
the Police Chief, who shall operate solely under the guidance and
direction of and report directly to the City Manager. The Director shall
supervise the Department in accordance with the applicable personnel
policies and Vol. I, Article 3-10 and shall exercise such powers and
perform such duties as are customarily conferred and required by
applicable ordinance, resolution or lawful directive.

(Prior Code, § 3-6-1)

§ 3-6-2 FUNCTION OF DEPARTMENT.

   It shall be the function of the department to preserve order, enforce
Vol. I, ordinances and laws in the city and the state, preserve the
peace, and render aid in the case of disaster or accident.

(Prior Code, § 3-6-2)

§ 3-6-3 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR; APPOINTMENT AND DISMISSAL.

   (A)   Duties. The Director of Public Safety shall have all the duties
and powers assigned by Vol. I, city ordinance, state or federal law.

   (B)   Appointment and dismissal. The position of the Director is
hereby declared as a classified career status employee as defined under
City of Apache Junction Personnel Rules, Rule 2, Definition of Terms, §
4, Career Status. The Director’s appointment by the City Manager shall
be ratified by the Mayor and Council. Removal shall be by the City
Manager in his or her sole discretion without ratification by the Mayor
and Council.

(Prior Code, § 3-6-3) (Am. Ord. 1321, passed 6-17-2008; Am. Ord. 1392,
passed 7-2-2013)

§ 3-6-4 DIVISIONS OF DEPARTMENT.

   There shall be divisions within the Department of Public Safety as
the City Manager deems fit. All heads of divisions shall be appointed
and removed by the Director subject to the ratification of the City
Manager and the provisions of Vol. I, Article 3-10 as it now exists or
may be amended thereafter.

(Prior Code, § 3-6-4)

§ 3-6-5 POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND ORDERS.

   (A)   Director's authority. The Director may make or prescribe
operational policies, procedures and orders for the conduct of the
department. The policies, procedures and orders, when approved by the
City Manager and subject to the legal review and approval by the City
Attorney, shall be binding and may cover the conduct of the members,
uniforms and equipment to be worn, carried or utilized, minimum
standards of behavior and other matters necessary or desirable for the
better efficiency of the Department.

   (B)   City Manager notification to Council. The City Manager shall
notify the Council of the rules and regulations once reviewed and
approved as to form by the City Attorney.

(Prior Code, § 3-6-5)

§ 3-6-6 STATUS OF MEMBERS.

   Members of the Department of Public Safety shall be appointed and
promotions within the department shall be made in the manner provided by
law. Each member of the Department shall have all the responsibility,
authority and liability prescribed by statute or ordinance.

(Prior Code, § 3-6-6)

ARTICLE 3-7: PROCUREMENT PROCEDURE

Section

   3-7-1   Purposes

   3-7-2   Definitions

   3-7-3   Procurements less than $5,000

   3-7-4   Procurements of $5,000 but less than $10,000

   3-7-5   Procurements of $10,000 but less than $50,000

   3-7-6   Procurements of $50,000 or more

   3-7-7   Exemptions

   3-7-8   Bid protest and appeal

   3-7-9   Disposal of personal property

   3-7-10   Bid disqualification

   3-7-11   Change orders

   3-7-12   Administrative procedures

   3-7-13   Online bidding

   3-7-14   Conflicts of interest and penalties

   3-7-15   Ethical standards and violations

   3-7-16   Unauthorized purchases; violation, liability, enforcement

   3-7-17   Upfront cooperative and piggyback purchasing

   3-7-18   Debarments and suspensions

   3-7-19   Job order contracting

§ 3-7-1 PURPOSES.

   The purposes of this article are to:

   (A)   Establish standard policies and practices for the procurement
of supplies, materials, equipment and services on a fiscal year basis
for each department per commodity.

   (B)   Provide for aid for the procurement of goods and services at
the appropriate time, place, quantity, purpose and price to meet the
operational requirements of the city.

   (C)   Ensure the fair and equitable treatment of all persons who
participate in the city procurement system and foster effective
broad-based competition.

   (D)   Ensure the proper disposal of property, equipment and materials
that are no longer of value to the city.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-2 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   CHANGE ORDER. A written order, signed by an authorized agent of the
city, which directs the contractor to make changes authorized by the
changes clause of the original contract.

   CITY MANAGER OR HIS OR HER DESIGNEE. Person(s) the City Manager or
City Council selects, in writing, to implement or administer the
provisions of this article.

   COMMODITY. A marketable item produced to fulfill a need or want, and
references both goods and services.

   CONSTRUCTION. The process of building, altering, repairing, improving
or demolishing any public structure or building, or other public
improvements to any public real property. CONSTRUCTION does not include
the routine operation, routine repair or routine maintenance of existing
structures, buildings or public real property.

   CONTRACT. A written agreement between the city and another party for
the procurement of materials, supplies or services; the term includes
but is not limited to: contracts of a fixed price, cost, cost plus,
fixed fee, contracts providing for the issuance of job tasks, leases and
rentals excluding real estate, maintenance agreements, letter contracts,
and purchase orders.

   FORMAL WRITTEN QUOTE. A hard copy, on official business letterhead
and with the signature of the vendor, directed to city staff member.

   INFORMAL WRITTEN QUOTE. An email, fax or other hard copy directed to
city staff member and fully documented by such staff member.

   INVITATION FOR BIDS. All documents, whether attached or incorporated
by reference, used for soliciting bids in accordance with the procedures
prescribed herein, including a request for proposals and a request for
statement of qualifications.

   LOWEST RESPONSIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BIDDERS. A person, firm or other
entity that submits a bid that:

      (1)   Is the least amount compared to other bidders; and

      (2)   Responds to the invitation for bids in all material
respects; and

      (3)   Demonstrates the submitting party has the wherewithal to
perform the work per the plans and specifications within the contract
time, as determined by experience, skill, financial strength, integrity
and experience record with the city and/or other approved or recognized
government organizations.

   PROCUREMENT. The purchasing, sale of, renting, leasing or otherwise
obtaining of any materials, supplies or services.

   SERVICES. The furnishing of labor, time or effort.

   TECHNICAL REGISTRANT. A person who provides any of the professional
services listed in A.R.S. Title 32, Chapter 1, as amended, and includes,
but is not limited to, architects, assayers, engineers, geologists, land
surveyors and landscape architects.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-3 PROCUREMENTS LESS THAN $5,000.

   Purchases, leases, rentals and contracts for supplies, services,
equipment, materials, professional services and the sale of personal
property of an estimated value in the amount of less than $5,000, may be
made directly by the City Manager or his or her designee without quotes.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-4 PROCUREMENTS OF $5,000 BUT LESS THAN $10,000.

   Purchases, leases, rentals and contracts for supplies, services,
equipment, materials, professional services and the sale of personal
property of an estimated value of $5,000 but less than $10,000, may be
made by the City Manager, or his or her designee, by soliciting at least
3 informal written quotes, and shall be awarded to the lowest responsive
and responsible quote.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-5 PROCUREMENTS OF $10,000 BUT LESS THAN $50,000.

   Purchases, leases, rentals and contracts for supplies, services,
equipment, materials, professional services and the sale of personal
property of an estimated value of $10,000, but less than $50,000, may be
made by the City Manager, or his or her designee, by soliciting at least
3 formal written quotes, and shall be awarded to the lowest responsive
and responsible quote.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-6 PROCUREMENTS OF $50,000 OR MORE.

   Purchases, leases, rentals and contracts for supplies, services,
equipment, materials, professional services and the sale of personal
property of $50,000 or more in estimated value, shall be made by written
contract, approved by the Mayor and City Council, pursuant to the
following provisions:

   (A)   Invitation for bids. An invitation for bids (“IFB”), request
for proposals (“RFP”) or request for statement of qualifications (“SOQ”)
shall:

      (1)   Include a description of the articles to be purchased or
sold;

      (2)   State where IFB/RFP/SOQ forms and specifications may be
obtained; and

      (3)   State the date, time and place for opening bids. An
IFB/RFP/SOQ shall be published at least 10 calendar days before the date
of opening the bids. Pursuant to A.R.S. § 39-204, publication shall be
made in a qualified newspaper as follows:

         (a)   If the newspaper is a weekly, publication must occur once
each week for 2 consecutive weeks; or

         (b)   If the newspaper is a daily, publication shall be made on
4 consecutive days.

   (B)   Bidder’s security. The bidder’s security shall be prescribed in
the IFB/RFP/SOQ. Failure to submit security in the amount and the type
of security required shall result in the rejection of the response to an
IFB/RFP/SOQ. Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to returned bid
security. A successful bidder of an IFB/RFP/SOQ shall forfeit their bid
security upon refusal or failure to execute the contract within the time
specified, dating from award of contract date, unless the city is
responsible for the delay. The Council may, on refusal or failure of the
successful bidder to execute the contract, award it to the next lowest
responsive and responsible bidder.

   (C)   Bid opening procedure. Sealed bids shall be submitted to the
City Manager or his or her designee, and the bid number and project
title shall be clearly written on the exterior of the envelope. Bids
shall be opened in public at the date, time and place stated in the
public notice. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available to
the public for inspection during regular business hours for a period of
time as prescribed under Arizona law. After bid opening, no corrections
in bid prices or other provisions of bids prejudicial to the best
interest of the city or fair competition shall be permitted. Late bids
shall be returned unopened to bidders who fail to file their bids in a
timely manner.

   (D)   Bid rejection. Bids submitted without bid bonds will not be
considered and shall be rejected. At its discretion, the Council may
reject any and all bids.

   (E)   Award of contracts. Based on the bid opening, Council shall
award the contract to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder for
purchases, leases or rental contracts for supplies, services, equipment
or sale of personal property, or professional services valued at $50,000
or more. In awarding the contract, Council shall be advised of and shall
consider the advantages or disadvantages of the proposed purchases,
leases, rentals, contracts, professional services or sales as presented
by the City Manager or his or her designee.

   (F)   Payment and performance bonds. The city shall have the
authority to require a payment and performance bond before entering a
contract in such amount as it shall find reasonably necessary to protect
the best interests of the city. The form for the payment and performance
shall be included in the IFB/RFP/SOQs. Bonding shall not be required for
contracts under $50,000.

   (G)   (1)   The contract shall be awarded by written notice to the
bidder whose bid conforms in all material respects to requirements and
criteria set forth in the IFB/RFP/SOQ.

      (2)   In the case of an RFP and SOQ, if the construction project
exceeds available funds and such bid does not exceed such funds by more
than 5%, the City Manager or his or her designee may negotiate an
adjustment of the bid price with the lowest responsive and responsible
bidder in order to bring the bid within the amount of available funds.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-7 EXEMPTIONS.

   The following services, materials, contracts, and incidents are
exempt from this article.

   (A)   Professional services. Administrative or appellate hearing
officers, appraisal, architectural, bond and municipal improvement
district consulting, certified public accountant, clergy, dental,
economic and environmental assessments, educator, employee benefits
provider, employment, engineering, entertainers, financial, fireworks,
indigent defense attorneys, instructors, interim consulting positions
for personnel services, judicial appointments, legal, medical, nursing,
physician, psychologist, senior meal and senior transportation programs,
surveying, tax software, technological, title insurance, travel and
tourism center or marketing efforts, and veterinarian and any healthcare
related affiliations.

   (B)   License and maintenance agreements. License and maintenance
agreements relating to software and tangible public property.

   (C)   Materials and equipment valued less than $5,000. Materials and
equipment valued at less than $5,000.

   (D)   Library materials exemption. Purchases of audiovisual
materials, books, periodicals and subscriptions.

   (E)   Public works projects exemption.

      (1)   Public buildings. Any building, structure, addition or
alteration thereto contemplated on city property, constructed with the
use of the city’s regularly employed personnel or contractors in an
amount up to and including $100,000, excluding materials and equipment
previously acquired by bid.

      (2)   Public infrastructure. Any street, road, bridge, water or
sewer work, other than a water or sewer treatment plant or building,
constructed with the use of the city’s regularly employed personnel or
contractors in an amount up to and including $100,000 per project,
excluding materials and equipment previously acquired by bid.

      (3)   Public art. Any painting, sculpture, mural, monument,
memorial, fountain, or civic statuary, that has been planned and
executed with the specific intention of being sited or staged in the
physical public domain, including on any city property and on any city
easements or rights-of-way accessible to the viewing public.

   (F)   Sole source procurement. Materials, supplies and services only
if the City Manager or his or her designee determines the needed
materials, supplies or services are available from only 1 source, and
only when proven by city staff that the advantages and overriding
considerations are paramount to the city’s interests.

   (G)   Emergency purchases. Emergency purchases where:

      (1)   There exists a threat to public health, welfare or safety,
including but not limited to, damaged city property causing such threat
without repair, replacement or substitute;

      (2)   If a situation exists that makes compliance with the
procurement process contrary to the public interest;

      (3)   There is immediate need to prepare for national or local
defense or assistance;

      (4)   There is a breakdown in machinery or in an essential service
that requires the immediate purchase of equipment, supplies or services
to protect the public health, welfare or safety; or

      (5)   An essential departmental operation effecting the public
health, welfare and safety would be greatly hampered if the prescribed
procurement procedure would cause an undue delay in obtaining the needed
item or service.

   (H)   Competitive purchasing and alternative bid procedure. When
deemed to be in the best interest of the city, supplies, materials and
equipment and services not otherwise exempted herein, may be purchased
pursuant to specifications, solicitation or contracts issued by other
local, state or federal governmental entities, or through the state bid
procurement lists, or by quasi-governmental units, school districts or
special districts which have used procurement procedures that are equal
to or stricter than the provisions set forth herein.

   (I)   Job-order-contracting. Construction supplies, materials,
equipment and labor handled through job-order-contracting construction
services procured under A.R.S. § 34-603, as amended.

   (J)   Development agreements. Development agreements pursuant to
A.R.S. § 9-500.05, except that public infrastructure improvements,
undertaken by the city through a development agreement with a private
entity or organization, shall be subject to the applicable, competitive
procurement statutes.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-8 BID PROTEST AND APPEAL.

   (A)   Any aggrieved person may protest any aspect of any bid
solicitation by filing the protest at the City Clerk’s office within 5
city working days after bid opening, and shall include the following:
name and address of protestor, bid description, grounds for protest,
including all evidence, exhibits or documents substantiating the
protest.

      (1)   Within 2 city working days after receipt of the protest, the
City Clerk shall forward it to the City Manager.

      (2)   Within 2 city working days, the City Manager or his or her
designee shall notify the protestor or other interested parties of the
time and place set for hearing on the protest.

      (3)   Interested parties may also file position statements and may
participate in the hearing.

      (4)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall conduct the
hearing within 5 city working days after sending the notice of the
hearing to the protestor and/or interested parties, absent any
stipulated continuances.

      (5)   Within 5 city working days after the hearing has been
completed, the City Manager or his or her designee shall issue a written
opinion and send it to the protestor and all interested parties. The
decision shall be final.

      (6)   In determining an appropriate remedy, the City Manager or
his or her designee shall consider the circumstances surrounding the
procurement or proposed procurement, including but not limited to, the
seriousness of the procurement deficiency, the degree of prejudice to
other interested parties or to the integrity of the procurement system,
the good faith of the parties, the extent of performance, costs to the
city, the urgency of the procurement and the impact of the relief upon
the city.

      (7)   An appropriate remedy may include one or more of the
following:

         (a)   Reissue the solicitation.

         (b)   Issue a new solicitation.

         (c)   Such other relief as is determined necessary to ensure
compliance with this procurement code, procurement guidelines and
procedures.

   (B)   A judicial appeal may be pursued pursuant to applicable law.

   (C)   No protest shall be accepted after award of bid by Council.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-9 DISPOSAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

   The city may, sell, lease, exchange, donate or otherwise dispose of
city personal property in the best interest of the city. The disposal of
surplus or obsolete personal property shall be done in as competitive a
manner as the procurement agent or authorized designee determines to be
practicable, including but not limited to, through competitive sealed
bids, public auction, online sales, established markets or posted
prices. Procedures shall be prescribed prohibiting the conversion of
surplus and obsolete city personal property for personal use by city
employees, unless the city receives fair market value for such personal
property and the personal property is disposed of in a commercially
reasonable manner. This code does not apply to unclaimed property
regulated under A.R.S. §§ 12-940 through 12-945, as amended.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-10 BID DISQUALIFICATION.

   (A)   Grounds. The City Manager or his or her designee may disqualify
any bidder from consideration of award of bid for materials, supplies or
services for up to 24 months, based on the following factors:

      (1)   As to bidders and their principal employees, conviction of a
criminal offense arising out of or obtaining or attempting to obtain a
public or private contract or subcontract, or in the performance of such
contract or subcontract;

      (2)   As to bidders and their principal employees, conviction of
any federal or state statute for murder, rape, robbery, assault, theft,
embezzlement, fraudulent schemes, artifices and practices, bid rigging,
perjury, forgery, gambling, bribery, falsification or destruction of
records, receiving stolen property, terrorist acts, or any other
offenses indicating lack of business integrity, credibility or honesty
that affects the responsible criteria to qualify as a city contractor;

      (3)   As to bidders and their principal employees, a conviction or
civil judgment relating to a violation of state or antitrust statutes;

      (4)   Failure to pass any clearance or applicable background
investigation in bids involving sensitive materials or tasks involving
public safety;

      (5)   Failure to pay any transaction privilege or use taxes
resulting from income received on public contracts; and

      (6)   Violation of contract provisions of a character deemed to be
so serious as to justify disqualification, such as:

         (a)   Knowingly failing, without good cause, to perform in
accordance with the specifications or within the time limits provided in
the contract; and

         (b)   Failure to perform or unsatisfactorily perform in
accordance with the terms of the contract, except that failure to
perform or unsatisfactorily perform caused by acts beyond the contract
of the contractor shall not be considered a basis.

   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall send written
notice of the proposed disqualification, including the grounds and
period of proposed disqualification, to the disqualified party by first
class U.S. certified mail to the address on the bid. The party shall
have a right to a hearing before the City Manager or his or her
designee, if an appeal is filed within 5 city working days after the
notice is sent. The City Manager or his or her designee shall provide
notice of the hearing date and time to the disqualified party within 5
city working days. The party shall have the opportunity to present
evidence rebutting the reasons for disqualification. The City Manager or
his or her designee shall decide the matter within 5 city working days
of the hearing, and shall notify the disqualified party within an
additional, 5-city-working-day period. The decision shall be final,
subject only to judicial appeal pursuant to applicable law.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-11 CHANGE ORDERS.

   The City Manager or his or her designee may authorize change orders
to any contract if the amount does not exceed 10% of the cumulative
amount of the contract. The Council may exercise its authority to
approve any change orders in any amount substantiated by staff.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-12 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.

   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designee may promulgate
administrative rules and regulations that more specifically delineate
the responsibilities of procurement procedures pursuant to this article.

   (B)   If the code adopted herein by reference, is for any reason held
to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion
thereof, and the rules of severability shall apply.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-13 ONLINE BIDDING.

   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designee may utilize online
bidding to obtain bids, proposals or offers electronically for the
purchase of goods, services, construction and information services.

   (B)   An online bidding solicitation must designate an opening date
and time.

   (C)   The closing date and time for an online solicitation may be
fixed or remain open, depending on the structure of the item being bid
online. Information regarding the closing date and time must be included
in the solicitation. At the opening date and time, the City Manager or
his or her designee must begin accepting online bids, proposals or
offers, and must continue accepting bids, proposals or offers until the
solicitation has officially closed.

   (D)   All online bids must be posted electronically on the city’s
website and updated on a realtime basis.

   (E)   The City Manager or his or her designee may:

      (1)   Require bidders, offerors or respondents to register with
the city prior to the opening date and time, and as part of the
registration, require bidders, offerors or respondents to agree to any
terms, conditions or other requirements of the solicitation.

      (2)   Prequalify bidders, offerors or respondents, and permit only
such prequalified vendors to submit bids, proposals or offers online.

   (F)   All bids, proposals or offers submitted electronically through
an online bidding process are public information and subject to the same
public disclosure laws that govern bids, proposals and offers received
through the competitive, sealed procurement process.

   (G)   All remedies available to the city and to bidders pursuant to
the city’s conventional, sealed bidding practices, as described in this
chapter, are also available to the city and bidders in an online bidding
process.

   (H)   The city shall accept online signatures as original signatures.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-14 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.

   No city employee or any city elected official shall participate
directly or indirectly in any procurement when the employee has a
conflict of interest as defined in A.R.S. § 38-503. In addition, any
person who violates this article is subject to criminal penalties set
forth in Vol. I, Article 1-8 of the city code, as well as applicable
criminal and civil penalties set forth under state law.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-15 ETHICAL STANDARDS AND VIOLATIONS.

   (A)   Standards. All parties involved in the negotiation, performance
or administration of city contracts are required to act in good faith.
Additionally, it is the policy of the city for employees to maintain
high standards of honesty, integrity, impartiality, courtesy and
conduct. The procurement agent or authorized designee is authorized to
take steps to ensure compliance with the following ethical standards.

      (1)   It is an affirmative obligation for city employees to
perform their responsibilities in such a manner to assure fair
competitive access to governmental procurement by responsible vendors.

      (2)   No employee of the city shall engage in acts that, in the
reasonable judgment of the City Manager or his or her designee, would
result in a loss of confidence in the integrity of the city’s
procurement process. Such acts would include, but are not limited to:

         (a)   Receipt of gifts or services of more than a de minimis
value from a prospective vendor;

         (b)   Statements to a vendor that they will be awarded the
contract based on personal knowledge or relationships with city
employees, without an evaluation of their submittal;

         (c)   Failure of a city employee sitting on a review committee
to disclose any prior or current conflict or business or financial
relationship with a proposed vendor;

         (d)   Criticism of one vendor to another vendor who is
competing for the same procurement prior to contract award; or

         (e)   Any acts similar to those outlined in divisions (A)(2)(a)
through (d) of this section. For purposes of this procurement code, DE
MINIMIS VALUE is defined as $25 or less from any single party in any
calendar year.

      (3)   City employees responsible for participation in procurement
by virtue of their positions shall make reasonable efforts to ensure
that contractors doing business with the city are aware that they are
expected to observe these same ethical standards. Violation of these
standards shall constitute grounds for termination of a contract with
the city and debarment of the vendor from doing any further business
with the city.

   (B)   Ethical violations.

      (1)   In addition to any applicable state law, it is a violation
of this procurement code:

         (a)   For any person to attempt to or influence any city
employee to violate the provisions of ethical conduct set forth in this
procurement code.

         (b)   For any person preparing plans or specifications pursuant
to this procurement code, or any policy or procedure of the city, to
receive any direct pecuniary benefit from the utilization of these plans
or specifications.

         (c)   For any employee or agent acting on behalf of the city to
directly or indirectly participate in, or benefit or receive any
pecuniary benefit from, a procurement solicitation in violation of state
or federal law.

         (d)   For any person to offer, give or agree to give any
employee or former employee of the city, or for any employee or former
employee of the city to solicit, demand, accept, or agree to accept from
another person, any valuable thing or valuable benefit that would not
accrue in the performance of their official duties, or an offer of
employment in connection with any decision, approval, disapproval,
recommendation, preparation or any part of a program requirement or a
purchase request, influencing content of any specification or
procurement standard, rendering of advice, investigation, auditing or in
any advisory capacity in any proceeding or application request for
ruling, determination, claim or controversy, or other particular matter,
pertaining to any program requirement of a contract or subcontract, or
to any solicitation or proposal therefor.

         (e)   For any payment, gratuity or offer of employment to be
made by or on behalf of a subcontractor under a contract to the prime
contractor or higher tier subcontractor of any person associated
therewith, as an inducement for the award of a subcontract or order.
Violation of this standard shall constitute grounds for termination of a
contract with the city and debarment of the vendor from doing any
further business with the city.

         (f)   For a person to be retained, or to retain a person, to
solicit or secure a city contract upon an agreement or understanding for
a commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, except for
retention of bona fide, established, selling agencies for the purpose of
securing business.

         (g)   For any employee who is participating directly or
indirectly in a procurement process to become the employee of any person
under contract with the city concerning any matters that the employee
participated in during the same procurement process for a period of 12
months following their employment with the city.

         (h)   For any employee or former employee of the city to
disclose or use confidential information acquired by the employee in the
performance of their official duties for anticipated pecuniary benefit,
or for the actual or anticipated pecuniary benefit of any person.

      (2)   It is no defense to a violation of this section that the
employee to whom a benefit or offer of employment was made, or agreed to
be made, was not qualified to act in the desired manner.

      (3)   An employee or person violates this section by intentionally
or knowingly engaging in a violation or by recklessly or negligently
engaging in a violation. The person’s state of mind shall only be
considered in imposing the penalty for such violation.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-16 UNAUTHORIZED PURCHASES; VIOLATION, LIABILITY, ENFORCEMENT.

   (A)   Except as provided in this procurement code, it shall be
improper for any city employee to purchase supplies or services or to
attempt to enter into contracts on behalf of the city other than through
the City Manager or his or her designee. Purchase orders or contracts
made contrary to the provisions of this section shall not be approved by
the City Manager or his or her designee, and the city shall not be bound
thereby.

   (B)   A person who contracts for or purchases any materials, services
or construction in a manner contrary to the requirements of this
procurement code or violates the ethical standards contained in this
procurement code shall be personally liable for the recovery of all
public monies paid, together with legal interest and all costs, attorney
fees and damages arising out of the violation.

   (C)   No action taken for violations of this section shall be
construed to preclude criminal prosecution of an employee or former
employee or any other person under the provisions of state or federal
law.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-17 UPFRONT COOPERATIVE AND PIGGYBACK PURCHASING.

   (A)   (1)   UPFRONT COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS include those in which
city shares its needs with the administering agency and such agency
includes the city’s calculations and needs when it seeks IFB/RFP/SOQs,
which allows the city to receive competitive pricing on needed
commodities and services.

      (2)   On request, make available to other public procurement units
informational, technical or other services that may assist in improving
the efficiency or economy of procurement. The public procurement unit
furnishing the information or technical services has the right to
request reimbursement for the reasonable and necessary costs of
providing such services.

   (B)   The city may either participate in, sponsor, conduct or
administer a cooperative purchasing agreement for the procurement of any
materials, services or construction with one or more eligible
procurement units in accordance with an agreement entered into between
the participants, or within existing participatory language contained in
agreements and intended for use by other municipal, county, state,
educational and special district entities. An agreement entered into, as
provided in this article, is exempt from A.R.S. § 11-952(D), (E) and
(F), as amended. Parties under a cooperative purchasing agreement may:

      (1)   Sponsor, conduct or administer a cooperative agreement for
the procurement or disposal of any materials, services or construction.

      (2)   Cooperatively use materials and services.

      (3)   Commonly use or share warehousing facilities, capital
equipment and other facilities.

      (4)   Provide personnel, except that the requesting eligible
procurement unit may pay the public procurement unit, providing the
personnel the direct and indirect cost of the personnel, in accordance
with the agreement.

   (C)   The activities described in divisions (A)(1) and (B)(1) through
(4) do not limit the activities of parties under a cooperative
purchasing agreement.

   (D)   PIGGYBACK PURCHASING is a form of intergovernmental,
cooperative purchasing in which an entity will be extended the pricing
and terms of a contract entered into by another entity. Generally, a
larger entity will competitively award a contract that will include
language allowing for other entities to utilize the contract, which may
be to their advantage in terms of pricing, thereby gaining economies of
scale not normally achieved if they competed on their own.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-18 DEBARMENTS AND SUSPENSIONS.

   The City Manager or his or her designee has the authority, with
written approval from the City Attorney, to debar or suspend a vendor
from participating in city procurement. The vendor may be suspended or
debarred based upon the following factors:

   (A)   The vendor does not have sufficient financial ability,
equipment or personnel to perform the contract.

   (B)   The vendor has repeatedly breached contractual obligations to
public and private agencies.

   (C)   The vendor fails to comply with the requests of an
investigation.

(Ord. 1462, passed 9-18-2018)

§ 3-7-19 JOB ORDER CONTRACTING.

   (A)   Job order contracting procurement is permitted under this code
to maximize efficiency in high dollar construction projects.

   (B)   Arizona law under A.R.S. § 34-605(F)(1) sets the maximum dollar
amount of an individual job order at $1,000,000.

   (C)   This amount can be raised pursuant to the same statute by the
City Council as long as contractual arrangements do not allow job orders
to be artificially divided or fragmented.

   (D)   The maximum dollar amount under A.R.S. § 34-605(F)(1) of
$1,000,000 is increased to $5,000,000 per job order.

   (E)   All other provisions set forth in A.R.S. § 34-605 et seq.,
relating to job order contracting, are applicable to procurements under
this code.

(Ord. 1522, passed 2-15-2022)

ARTICLE 3-8: RESERVED

[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 3-9: DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT SERVICES

Section

   3-9-1   Department established

   3-9-2   Divisions of department

   3-9-3   Powers and duties

   3-9-4   Division of Building Safety and Inspection

   3-9-5   Division of Planning

   3-9-6   Division of Code Compliance

§ 3-9-1 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.

   (A)   There is hereby created the Department of Development Services,
an executive department of the city. It shall consist of the Director of
Development Services who shall be the head of the department, and all
officers and employees assigned thereto. All such officers and employees
shall perform their duties subject to the supervision of the Director
who shall operate solely under the guidance and direction of and report
directly to the City Manager.

   (B)   The Director of Development Services shall supervise the
Department in accordance with the applicable personnel ordinances and
Vol. I, Article 3-10 of the code and shall exercise such powers and
perform such duties as are customarily conferred and required by Vol. I,
applicable ordinance, resolution or lawful directive. The position of
the Director of Development Services is hereby declared as classified
service and shall be appointed and removed by the City Manager subject
to ratification by the Council.

(Prior Code, § 3-9-1)

§ 3-9-2 DIVISIONS OF DEPARTMENT.

   There are hereby created within the Department of Development
Services the Divisions of Building Safety and Inspection, Division of
Planning and

Division of Code Compliance. Division managers and assigned staff shall
be appointed and removed by the Director of Development Services subject
to the ratification of the City Manager and the provisions of Vol. I,
Article 3-10 of the code as it now exists or may be hereafter amended.

(Prior Code, § 3-9-2)

§ 3-9-3 POWERS AND DUTIES.

   (A)   In addition to the duties set forth in this article, the
Department of Development Services shall have responsibility to perform
the duties of Zoning Administrator, Executive Secretary to the Board of
Adjustment, Planning and Zoning Commission, Construction Code Board of
Appeals, and other city boards, commissions and committees as directed.

   (B)   The department shall have charge of and supervision over the
maintenance of city building codes, general plan, zoning and subdivision
ordinances, and other official plans, codes and documents as assigned;
the maintenance of all departmental records as required by A.R.S. §§
41-1346 et seq., and the enforcement of a records retention and
destruction program as required by law; the review of all plans
submitted for the development or construction of city streets,
sidewalks, alleys and public ways, storm water and sanitary sewer
systems and facilities, all street gutters, drains, drainage ways, water
and wastewater treatment facilities, improvement districts, easements
and appurtenances thereto; the planning, organizing, directing and
coordinating of the city's economic development program; and the writing
and managing of grants, and providing housing and housing rehabilitation
services if such programs and services exist.

(Prior Code, § 3-9-3)

§ 3-9-4 DIVISION OF BUILDING SAFETY AND INSPECTION.

   The Division of Building Safety and Inspection shall be managed by
the Building and Safety Manager, who is responsible for exercising the
powers and duties of the Building Official as more fully detailed in
Chapter 7: Buildings; enforcing all applicable city ordinances and
codes, including state and federal laws relating to buildings; ordering
all work stopped on the construction, alteration or repair of buildings
in the city when such work is being done in violation of any provision
of any code or ordinance related thereto; and for purposes of
inspection, making or causing entry into any building or premises where
alteration, repairing or construction of any building or structure is
occurring.

(Prior Code, § 3-9-4) (Am. Ord. 1476, passed 6-18-2019)

§ 3-9-5 DIVISION OF PLANNING.

   The Division of Planning shall be responsible for receiving and
processing development site plans, zoning amendment requests,
pre-application, preliminary and final subdivision plats, and other such
items as are appropriate and presenting them to the Planning and Zoning
Commission; receiving and processing petitions for variances, special
exceptions and appeals or interpretations and presenting them to the
Board of Adjustment; and preparing notices of public hearings for
publication, preparing meeting agendas, recording meeting minutes and
maintaining records for the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board
of Adjustment, and notifying applicants of the results of such hearings.

(Prior Code, § 3-9-5)

§ 3-9-6 DIVISION OF CODE COMPLIANCE.

   The Division of Code Compliance shall be responsible for inspection,
investigation and enforcement of all laws relating to zoning compliance,
property maintenance and abandoned vehicles.

(Prior Code, § 3-9-6)

ARTICLE 3-10: PERSONNEL SYSTEM

Section

   3-10-1   Personnel system

§ 3-10-1 PERSONNEL SYSTEM.

   (A)   That certain document, entitled Personnel Rules, City of Apache
Junction, 3 copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk
of the City of Apache Junction, Arizona, is hereby approved as per
Exhibit "A," adopted by the Council and made a part hereof by reference.

   (B)   That certain document entitled Police Policies and Procedures,
City of Apache Junction, Arizona, 3 copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk of the City of Apache Junction, Arizona, is
hereby approved as per Exhibit "B," adopted by the Council and made a
part hereof by reference.

(Prior Code, Art. 3-10)

ARTICLE 3-11: DEPARTMENT OF THE LIBRARY

Section

   3-11-1   Department established

   3-11-2   Duties of Library Director

§ 3-11-1 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.

   (A)   The Department of the Library of the City of Apache Junction is
hereby created and established. It shall consist of the Library Director
who shall be the chief administrator of the Department and all other
employees assigned thereto. All other employees shall perform their
duties subject to the supervision of the Library Director who shall
operate under the guidance and direction of and report directly to the
City Manager. The Library Director shall supervise his Department in
accordance with the applicable personnel ordinances and shall exercise
such powers and perform such duties as are required by Vol. I,
applicable ordinances, resolutions or lawful directives.

   (B)   The position of the Library Director is hereby declared as
classified service, and he or she shall be appointed and removed by the
City Manager subject to ratification of the Council, and shall serve and
receive such compensation as shall be determined in accordance with the
applicable personnel ordinance.

(Prior Code, § 3-11-1)

§ 3-11-2 DUTIES OF LIBRARY DIRECTOR.

   The Library Director shall:

   (A)   Retain all duties and responsibilities assigned by Vol. I, law
or ordinance and shall abide by those set forth in A.R.S. §§ 9-411
through 9-420.

   (B)   Consult with the President of the Library Board as to the items
to be included on the agenda of meetings for the Board prior to the
preparation and distribution of the agenda by the Library Director. The
Library Director, if requested by any Board members, shall include on
the agenda any item requested by the Board member.

   (C)   Prepare and distribute the official minutes of all Library
Board meetings.

   (D)   Consult with the Library Board and City Manager on the
establishment of all policies and procedures including, but not limited
to library hours, general standards of service, book selection, policy
and fees.

   (E)   Administer and operate existing library facilities and programs
and plan for the development and operation of proposed facilities and
programs in accordance with policies set by lawful directives of the
Library Board and the Council.

   (F)   Make recommendations to the City Manager, with the assistance
of the Library Board, for the annual budget for submittal to the
Council.

   (G)   Inform the general public of the services and facilities being
provided by the Library Department; address professional civic and lay
groups on related subjects; solicit suggestions from the general public
on increasing the effectiveness of programs; cooperate with governmental
and voluntary organizations and agencies in the solving of related
problems; provide, upon request, assistance of a technical nature to
community agencies and organizations on problems related to library
facilities and programs.

   (H)   Assist community organizations in the promotion of Library
Department services; conduct studies of local conditions and needs for
such services; assist with the recruitment and training of professional
library personnel and volunteer leaders.

   (I)   Upon request, advise the Council, the Library Board and
community organizations concerning the expenditure of public funds for
the library; acquisitions, design and development of facilities; and
shall maintain effective and cooperative relations with all city
officials, state and federal agencies and with local, state and national
voluntary organizations.

(Prior Code, § 3-11-2)

ARTICLE 3-12: RESERVED

[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 3-13: DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION

Section

   3-13-1   Department established

   3-13-2   Divisions of the Department

   3-13-3   Powers and duties

   3-13-4   Assignment and custody of physical properties

§ 3-13-1 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.

   There is hereby created the Department of Parks and Recreation, an
executive department of the city. It shall consist of the Director of
Parks and Recreation who shall be the head of the department and all
officers and employees assigned thereto. All such officers and employees
shall perform their duties subject to the supervision of the director,
who shall operate solely under the guidance and direction of, and report
directly to, the City Manager. The Director of Parks and Recreation
shall supervise the department in accordance with the applicable
personnel ordinances and Vol. I, Article 3-10 and shall exercise such
powers and perform such duties as are customarily conferred and required
by Vol. I, applicable ordinances, resolutions or lawful directives. The
position of Director of Parks and Recreation is hereby declared as
classified service, and the Director shall be appointed and removed by
the City Manager subject to ratification of the Council and shall serve
and receive such compensation as shall be determined in accordance with
the applicable personnel ordinance.

(Prior Code, § 3-13-1)

§ 3-13-2 DIVISIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT.

   There are hereby created within the Department of Parks and
Recreation, the divisions of recreation, park development and
maintenance; and other such divisions as the Director deems appropriate
for the efficient and expeditious operation of the department. Division
heads shall be appointed and removed by the Director of Parks and
Recreation subject to ratification by the City Manager and the
provisions of Vol. I, Article 3-10 as it now exists or may be hereafter
amended.

(Prior Code, § 3-13-2)

§ 3-13-3 POWERS AND DUTIES.

   The Director of Parks and Recreation shall:

   (A)   Administer and operate existing recreation and park areas,
facilities and programs and plan for the acquisition, development and
operation of proposed facilities and programs in accordance with
policies set by the Director, by lawful directives, by the Council and,
when possible, with the recommendations formulated by the Parks and
Recreation Commission;

   (B)   Prepare an annual budget for presentation to the Council;

   (C)   Inform the general public of the services and facilities being
provided by the Department of Parks and Recreation; address professional
civic and lay groups on recreational subjects; solicit suggestions from
the general public on increasing the effectiveness of the recreation
programs; cooperate with governmental and voluntary organizations and
agencies in the solving of recreation problems; provide, upon request,
assistance of a technical nature to community agencies and organizations
on problems related to recreation and park facilities and programs;

   (D)   Assist community organizations in the promotion of recreation
services; conduct studies of local conditions and needs for recreation
services; assist with the recruitment and training of professional
recreation personnel and volunteer leaders;

   (E)   Upon request, advise the Council, the Parks and Recreation
Commission and community organizations concerning the expenditure of
public funds for recreation and parks; acquisition, design and
development of recreation facilities and areas; and shall maintain
effective and cooperative relations with all city officials, state and
federal agencies and with local, state and national voluntary recreation
organizations;

   (F)   With the approval of the Mayor and Council, post such rules and
regulations as deemed necessary for the conduct of persons in the parks
and other recreational facilities under his or her jurisdiction; and

   (G)   Assign the management and care of trees and plants in public
spaces to trained staff and volunteers within the Department; and
maintain a process for removal and replacement as guided by the
Department’s Parks, Open Space, and Right-of-Way Landscape Standards,
which are regularly updated and visited to ensure best practices.

   (H)   Create, update and follow routine inspection and maintenance
schedules for all city parks and recreation facilities, including
specialty amenities such as playgrounds, skate parks, and aquatic
centers.

(Prior Code, § (Am. Ord. 1539, passed 12-19-2023)

§ 3-13-4 ASSIGNMENT AND CUSTODY OF PHYSICAL PROPERTIES.

   All parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities and open space
properties of the city shall be and are hereby assigned to the
Department of Parks and Recreation. The Director of Parks and Recreation
shall be the custodian of all tools, equipment and other personal
property assigned to the department of community services.

(Prior Code, § 3-13-4)

ARTICLE 3-14: PROPERTY DISPOSITION

Section

   3-14-1   Property disposition

§ 3-14-1 PROPERTY DISPOSITION.

   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
a different meaning.

   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES. Those regulations which the city creates
relating to weapons disposition.

   HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE. Some special or important past.

   LICENSED DEALERS. Those persons, firms, or other entities which hold
current and valid governmental authorization to trade, sell or barter
weapons.

   PRESERVATION ENTITY. Any governmental or private agency, association,
or organization that displays to the public for a fee or for free,
weapons in their original condition or those that have been restored.

   (B)   General applications. All seized or appropriated weapons in the
possession of the Apache Junction Police Department shall be generally
handled as follows:

      (1)   Destroyed or disposed of in a manner the Chief of Police
believes is commercially viable and appropriate under the following
circumstances:

         (a)   Firearms that have been illegally modified or are
specifically illegal to possess under Arizona or federal law.

         (b)   Firearms that were used in the commission of a crime, or
that were used in the commission of a suicide, following the conclusion
of the investigation/prosecution and with appropriate release from the
prosecutorial agency involved. Such discretion noted above includes
return of such weapons to their lawful owners as determined by the Chief
of Police in consultation with the City Attorney.

         (c)   Firearms whose serial numbers have been altered or
defaced, except for handguns which were manufactured before 1938 and
long rifles manufactured before 1968. In such cases, the Chief of Police
shall: 1) if they can be obtained, notify ATF; and 2) dispose of such
weapons through an auction after having such firearms examined and
valued by an expert as identified in division (C)(4) of this section.
Such value shall be the opening bid price at any auction.

      (2)   Shall be subject to test firing if in the opinion of the
Criminal Investigation Division Commander, such test firing is viable,
with such results then being entered into the National Integrated
Ballistic Information Network.

   (C)   Alternative dispositions. Weapons that are not destroyed
pursuant to division (B) of this section may be disposed by one of the
following methods:

      (1)   Returned to the lawful owner, if he or she is not a
prohibited possessor as defined under A.R.S. § 13-3101 or otherwise has
not been prohibited from possessing such weapon(s) pursuant to a plea
agreement or court order.

      (2)   Converted to use by members of the City of Apache Junction
Police Department in performance of their duties, as determined by the
Chief of Police.

      (3)   Transferred to other law enforcement agencies for official
law enforcement purposes, as determined by the Chief of Police.

      (4)   Transferred or sold to appropriate museums or other
preservation entities if such weapons have historical significance, as
determined by an expert in antiquities and rare items employed by the
State of Arizona or a private museum.

      (5)   Offered at auction to licensed weapon dealers.
Administrative procedures for the auction of firearms shall be followed
in accordance with Arizona law.

   (D)   Fund allocation. Any funds collected as a result of
City-initiated weapon auctions shall be placed in the City of Apache
Junction General Fund and be specifically allocated to the Police
Department budget.

(Ord. 1285, passed 2-20-2007; Am. Ord. 1374, passed 4-19-2011)

CHAPTER 4: FEES

      Article

         4-1.   PARKS AND RECREATION FEE SCHEDULE

         4-2.   RETURNED PAYMENT FEES

         4-3.   ANIMAL CONTROL FEE SCHEDULE

         4-4.   DEVELOPMENT SERVICES FEES

         4-5.   [RESERVED]

         4-6.   PUBLIC WORKS FEE SCHEDULE

         4-7.   PUBLIC SAFETY FEE SCHEDULE

         4-8.   MUNICIPAL COURT FEE SCHEDULE

ARTICLE 4-1: PARKS AND RECREATION FEE SCHEDULE

Section

   4-1-1   Facility and equipment rental fees

   4-1-2   Deposits

   4-1-3   Program and activity fees

   4-1-4   Refunds

   4-1-5   Promotional discounts

   4-1-6   Fee categories

   4-1-7   Priority reservations and registrations

§ 4-1-1 FACILITY AND EQUIPMENT RENTAL FEES.

 

Description

User fee

1.   Meeting and Classroom Space

Multi-purpose room (“MGC”)

$60.00 per hour

Large classroom/meeting room

$30.00 per hour

Small classroom/meeting room

$20.00 per hour

2.   Sports Fields

Field preparation softball/ baseball

$40.00 per field

Field preparation - soccer/ football

$80.00 per field

Daytime sports field usage

$10.00 per hour

Evening sports field usage

$17.00 per hour

3.   Group Use (Designated Areas Only)

Small Ramada (maximum of 30 people; 2-hour minimum)

$10.00 per hour

Large Ramada (maximum of 50 people; 2-hour minimum)

$15.00 per hour

Multi-use area

$8.00 per hour

4.   Rodeo Park

Arena preparation

$50.00 per prep

Daytime arena usage

$8.00 per hour

Evening arena usage (including lights)

$17.00 per hour

Multi-use area

$8.00 per hour

Concession stand

$8.00 per hour

5.   Pool Entry/Passes

Daily fees (17 and under)

$2.00

Daily fees (18 and over)

$3.00

Season pass (17 and under)

$60.00

Season pass (18 and over)

$85.00

Family season pass (up to 6 members)

$130.00

Additional members on family pass

$20.00

6.   Swimming Pool

Pool rental - shared use, up to 149 people (2-hour minimum; includes
lifeguard)

$250.00 per hour

Pool rental - exclusive use, 150 or more people (2-hour minimum;
includes lifeguard)

$330.00 per hour

Pool rental - competition pool only (2-hour minimum; includes lifeguard)

$125.00 per hour

7.   Multi-Generational Center Entry/ Memberships

Daily fees (17 and under)

$3.00

Daily fees (18 and older)

$5.00

Monthly pass (17 and under)

$16.00

Monthly pass (18 and older)

$27.00

Monthly pass (family, up to 6 members)

$60.00

Each additional member

$10.00

Six month pass (17 and under)

$82.00

Six month pass (18 and older)

$132.00

Six month pass (family, up to 6 members)

$297.00

Each additional member

$25.00

Annual pass (17 and under)

$132.00

Annual pass (18 and older)

$198.00

Annual pass (family up to 6 members)

$528.00

Each additional member

$40.00

Ten-day punch pass

$35.00

8.   Sport Courts

Daytime court usage

$5.00 per hour

Evening court usage (includes lights)

$10.00 per hour

Gymnasium

$75.00 per hour

9.   Veteran’s Memorial Park

Veteran’s Memorial Park

$15.00 per hour

10.   Special Services/Equipment

Barricades

$3.00 each

Bleachers - 3 row (includes delivery)

$50.00 per day

Bleachers - 5 row (includes delivery)

$65.00 per day

Field marker

$6.00 per bag

Folding chairs

$1.00 each

Folding tables

$6.00 each

Malt beverage permit - single-day fee

$10.00 per day

Malt beverage permit - multiple-day fee

$25.00 per event

Personnel services (per employee)

$30.00 per hour

Rodeo arena PA system

$30.00 per day

Single sport package

$6.00 per day

Tractor/loader (includes operator)

$55.00 per hour

Traffic cones

$1.00 each

Used softballs

$1.00 each

Water truck (includes operator)

$55.00 per hour

Electronic messaging board

$50.00/10 days

Mobile stage * (first day)

$500.00

Mobile stage (each additional, consecutive day)

$250.00

Mobile stage refundable security/cleaning deposit

$500.00 per event

* Stage must stay inside city limits, no reduced fees, additional staff
assessed at personnel fee rate ($30.00 per hour), requires insurance
with city as additional insured.

 

(Ord. 1415, passed 6-16-2015; Am. Ord. 1507, passed 11-16-2021)

§ 4-1-2 DEPOSITS.

   The Director of Parks and Recreation, or his or her designee, may
require deposits or clean-up fees for equipment/facility rentals deemed
necessary, equal to or up to the amount of the rental fee.

(Ord. 1415, passed 6-16-2015; Am. Ord. 1507, passed 11-16-2021)

§ 4-1-3 PROGRAM AND ACTIVITY FEES.

 

Description

User Fee

1.   Adult Sports

Leagues (teams)

$5.00 - $500.00

Instruction

$0.00 - $100.00

2.   Aquatics

Swim instruction

$10.00 - $50.00

Swim team

$30.00- $75.00

3.   Dance/Fitness/Exercise

Per session

$0.00 - $75.00

4.   Open Gym Programs

Per session

$3.00 - $300.00

5.   Special Events

Per event

$0.00 - $50.00

6.   Special Interest Classes

Per session

$0.00 - $200.00

7.   Youth Sports

Leagues

$20.00 - $75.00

Instruction

$0.00 - $150.00

(Ord. 1415, passed 6-16-2015; Am. Ord. 1507, passed 11-16-2021)

§ 4-1-4 REFUNDS.

   All refunds shall be made in full, except for a 10% administrative
processing fee, with a $5 minimum.

(Ord. 1415, passed 6-16-2015; Am. Ord. 1507, passed 11-16-2021)

§ 4-1-5 PROMOTIONAL DISCOUNTS.

   (A)   Intent. The Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her
designee, may from time to time establish promotional discounts to
encourage and increase participation in programs and memberships,
especially for off-season events.

   (B)   Limitation. With the exception of a limited quantity of free
day passes to the multi-generational center or aquatic center, no
promotion may exceed 50% off the regular price of admission.

(Ord. 1415, passed 6-16-2015; Am. Ord. 1507, passed 11-16-2021)

§ 4-1-6 FEE CATEGORIES.

   (A)   No fee category. The Parks and Recreation Department has
priority use of all facilities and recreational areas. When facilities
are not in use for Parks and Recreation-sponsored activities, they shall
be available on a permit/no fee basis to the following:

      (1)   All other city departments.

      (2)   City Council-approved special events (considered annually
during budget process).

      (3)   Partner agencies with formal agreements.

   (B)   Partial fee category. Groups that meet the following local
youth serving agency criteria will have priority use with those above,
on a reduced fee basis (25% of regular public rates):

      (1)   The youth serving agency is a 501(c)(3) non-profit
organization.

      (2)   The youth serving agency is governed by a local, unpaid
volunteer board and unpaid staff.

      (3)   Participant members are made up of a majority of City of
Apache Junction residents.

      (4)   Youth serving agency participation is open to the public,
and not “by invitation only,” or limited by any means other than the
natural makeup of the league (i.e., no cuts and must have minimum
participation/play rules in place).

   (C)   Full fee category. When facilities are not in use by the Parks
and Recreation Department, or the groups listed above, they will be made
available to other Apache Junction residents, groups or organizations on
a permit/fee basis.

   (D)   Non-resident fee category. Individuals that do not reside
within the incorporated limits of the city shall be charged a fee that
is 25% more than the listed facility rental fees in § 4-1, Facility and
Equipment Rental Fees, with the exception of pool entry/passes and
multi-generational center entry/memberships.

   (E)   Commercial fee category. Businesses and other for-profit
organizations shall be charged a fee that is 50% more than the listed
facility rental fees in § 4-1-1, Facility and Equipment Rental Fees,
with the exception of pool entry/passes and multi-generational center
entry/memberships. Facilities that are on a Bureau of Land Management
recreation and public purpose lease will not be eligible for commercial
rentals.

(Ord. 1415, passed 6-16-2015; Am. Ord. 1507, passed 11-16-2021)

§ 4-1-7 PRIORITY RESERVATIONS AND REGISTRATIONS.

   The Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her designee, may
establish a priority registration or priority reservation period for
Apache Junction residents. Programs and facilities with the highest
participation and/or use shall be considered for priority registration
or priority reservation for Apache Junction residents.

(Ord. 1415, passed 6-16-2015; Am. Ord. 1507, passed 11-16-2021)

ARTICLE 4-2: RETURNED PAYMENT FEES

Section

   4-2-1   Returned payment fees

§ 4-2-1 RETURNED PAYMENT FEES.

   (A)   Whenever the city is paid any fees authorized or required by
this code, or for any services or commodities in the form of a check,
debit card, credit card, automated clearing house ("ACH") transaction or
other acceptable form of electronic payment and the financial
institution refuses payment of the amount, a fee as outlined in A.R.S. §
44-6852 plus any directly related costs, including but not limited to
postage and special postal handling charges, shall be charged to the
maker for each check, debit card, credit card, ACH or other acceptable
form of electronic payment that is refused.

   (B)   Any debt to the city for which a check, debit card, credit
card, ACH or other form of electronic payment has been tendered and
returned by any financial institution, shall be satisfied by payment in
full of the amount, including the returned payment fee, as outlined in
A.R.S. § 44-6852, plus any directly related costs including but not
limited to postage and special postal handling charges. Payments shall
only be accepted in the form of cash, cashier's check or money order.

   (C)   The city may use any legal means to collect amounts owed to it
including returned payment fees. The city's legal remedies shall
include, but are not limited to, the filing of a legal action in a court
of competent jurisdiction. Should a legal action be filed, recovery may
include the city's reasonable attorney's fees and court costs.

   (D)   The city may waive any additional fee pursuant to this section
in a situation in which the payment was dishonored for reasons beyond
the maker's control.

(Ord. 1395, passed 11-19-2013)

ARTICLE 4-3: ANIMAL CONTROL FEE SCHEDULE

Section

   4-3-1   Animal control fee schedule

§ 4-3-1 ANIMAL CONTROL FEE SCHEDULE.

 

 

Fee

License fees (dogs)

   Sterilized

$10 per dog

($5 per dog for senior citizens at least 62 years of age or older and
physically disabled persons with proof of disability, such as, but not
limited to, a disabled parking decal or a medical card in the name of
the disabled person)

   Non-sterilized

$18 per dog

Impound fee for dogs at-large

$40 per animal, per event

$20 additional per each subsequent impound

Microchipping fees

$25 per at-large dog

$12 per adopted cat

Board fee (feeding, cleaning and general care)

$10 per animal, per day

 

   Fee

Microchipping fees

$25 per at-large dog

$12 per adopted cat

Board fee (feeding, cleaning and general care)

$10 per animal, per day

Dog kennel permit fees

 

   Commercial dog kennel permit

$80 annually (12-month period)

   Personal dog kennel permits**

Class 1 (4-5 dogs):

$40 annually (12-month period, plus individual license fees)

Class 2 (6-8 dogs):

$60 annually (12-month period, plus individual license fees)

   Late fee

$15 (delinquent 30 calendar days from date of expiration)

Quarantine fee (biting dogs)

$40 per animal, per event (plus $10 per day per animal board fee, plus
applicable

license and vaccination fees)

 

Fee

Tag replacement

$5 per replacement

Pick up live dogs or cats for surrender

$65 dogs

$40 cats

Euthanasia fee

      Over 40 pounds without disposal

$55 per animal

      Over 40 pounds with disposal

$65 per animal

      Dogs

$110 per animal

      Cats

$75 per animal

   Cats

      Any weight without disposal

$35 per animal

      Any weight with disposal

$40 per animal

Vaccinations (rabies only)

   Dogs (3 months and older)

$15 per animal

   Puppies (less than 3 months)

$15 per animal

   Cats (any age)

$15 per animal

Animal traps (for city residents only)

$15 refundable deposit, plus $10 for each 10-day use period;

$3 per day late return fee

 

Fee

Animal traps (for city residents only)

$15 refundable deposit, plus $10 for each 10-day use period;

$3 per day late return fee

Adoption fees (includes sterilization)*

   Dogs

$90 per animal, puppy $200

   Cats

$70 per animal, kitten $150

Surrender fees

   Dogs

$65

   Cats

$40

Adoption fee for sterilized animals*

   Dogs

$40 per animal

   Cats

$30 per animal

   Others

$40 per animal**

*   The Director or his or her designee may waive adoption fees during
official adoption events in order to encourage adoptions to reduce high
inventories of animals.

**         Individuals that hold a class 3 personal dog kennel permit
prior to January 5, 2019, may continue owning, maintaining or harboring
9-12 dogs, provided they are up-to-date on permit fees and dog
licensing, and may continue to renew their permit until such time they
decide to surrender such permit or fail to pay the renewal charge of
$80.(Ord. 1311, passed 4-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1416, passed 6-16-2015; Am.
Ord. 1464, passed 12-4-2018; Am. Ord. 1550, passed 8-6-2024)

 

ARTICLE 4-4: DEVELOPMENT SERVICES FEES

Section

   4-4-1   Building permit fees (Art in public and private developments)

   4-4-2   Grading permit fees

   4-4-3   Planning, subdivision and zoning fees

   4-4-4   Development Services engineering fees

§ 4-4-1 BUILDING PERMIT FEES (ART IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT).

   (A)   The purpose of the building permit fees for the construction of
buildings and structures in the city is to ensure that the costs for
providing enforcement and administration services are borne entirely by
the construction activity prompting the need for such services.

   (B)   The fee for each building permit and other services provided by
the Building Division and other city departments and divisions shall be
as set forth in this chapter and the most recently adopted city building
permit fee schedule. Such fees shall be periodically reviewed and
adjusted by the City Council to generate sufficient total revenue to
offset the current estimated city costs for providing permit processing,
plan review, field inspection, and other development-related services,
including necessary capital expenditures. The effective date for
revisions to the schedule of fees and charges shall be July 1, 2019.

   (C)   Where the development of land and construction of buildings,
structures, systems or other improvements require a building permit from
the city, fees for each building permit shall be paid as required and in
accordance with the building permit fee schedule established by the
city.

   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
a different meaning.

      BUILDING PERMIT FEES. All fees related to the administration of
the building codes, including but not limited to, the commercial
building code, fire code, residential building code, electrical code,
plumbing code, mechanical code, fuel gas code, energy code, existing
building code, and manufactured home regulations.

      FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATION FEE. A fee applicable to all residential
and commercial building permits issued for new construction or additions
on parcels located in the A, AE and AH (1%) flood zones.

      GIS FEE. A fee that supports the city’s geographic information
system (“GIS”), which provides specific services to the administration,
plan review, inspection, on-line permit submittal of the Development
Services Department. The fee may be used to support the collection and
maintenance of the built environment in the city to increase the
information available to all those involved in the land development
process.

      TECHNOLOGY FEE. A fee collected for the purchase of hardware,
software, services and staff to support the following functions:
administration, plan review, inspection, records management, and on-line
services of the Development Services Department. The technology fee
shall be used to acquire and implement improvements to the land
development process technologies as approved by the City Manager.

   (E)   Units of measure for fee calculation.

      (1)   Per appeal, per request, per incident or per occurrence. The
fee noted will be charged for each applicable, individual case, request,
and the like.

      (2)   Per application or per permit. Applicable where fee is not
included in the base fee or flat fee amount, and is applicable per
definition.

      (3)   Per hour. Unless otherwise noted, the minimum increment of
time used to calculate the related fee. Partial hour time will be
rounded up to a whole hour (for example, 2 hours will be charged for 1.5
hours).

      (4)   Flat. Inclusive of administrative fee, plan review fee and
specified number of inspections.

      (5)   Per square foot or per sq. ft.

         (a)   Residential, new and additions. The area under roof,
excluding overhangs not over 2 feet in projection, enclosed areas to
exterior face of wall, unenclosed spaces measured to outside face of
support.

         (b)   Residential, interior remodel. For kitchens, bathrooms,
converting to habitable, total interior floor space of room or space,
including closets and/or pantries. For addition of wall or removal of
wall and installation of beam, and the like, 2 square feet per linear
foot of wall or beam.

         (c)   Residential swimming pool. The maximum width times the
maximum length is used to calculate the square footage for the fee.

         (d)   Park model. Patio cover/Arizona room and addition,
measured to the outside face of wall of enclosed space.

         (e)   Park model and manufactured home. Awning width is
measured from park model exterior wall to the support or support to
support, overhang, not to exceed 2 feet past face of support; awning
length is total length minus maximum of width overhang, uniformly
applied.

         (f)   Commercial.

            1.   Area under roof enclosed. Square footage to be based on
the area under roof, measured to the exterior face of walls, excluding
overhangs not over 3 feet in projection. Shade structures (other than
fabric or membrane) fully supported by the building and open trellis
shade structures can be excluded from roof area if utilized in the
energy calculations for the building. Fabric or membrane awnings fully
supported by the structure, and not exceeding 100 square feet, may be
excluded from the area under roof. Building area includes bay windows,
basements, mezzanines, penthouses and other mechanical spaces. Building
area does not include courts open at the top.

            2.   Area under roof of unenclosed spaces. For roof areas
not cantilevered or projected, square foot area is calculated based on
exterior face of supports. For cantilevered or projected roof areas, or
fuel station canopies, a uniform overhang of 2 feet may be taken off
exposed sides, the remaining square footage is used for calculating the
valuation.

            3.    Public/semi-public swimming pool. The maximum width
times the maximum length is used to calculate the square footage for the
fee.

         (g)   Miscellaneous. Linear foot total length minus full height
openings that are not gated. Length associated with an automatic gate
maybe deducted.

   (F)   Where work that is not exempt from a permit is found to have
been done without a required permit, or has started prior to having the
required permit issued, an investigation fee shall be charged. The
investigative fee will be equal to, and in addition to, the fee
applicable per the adopted fee schedule. The investigative fee is due at
the time of application for the required permit, and is in addition to
any other fees deposits due at that time. The Building and Safety
Manager may reduce the investigation fee in the case of a cooperative
homeowner that acts to resolve the violation within 30 calendar days
after receiving notice of the violation. The Building and Safety Manager
shall not reduce the investigation fee to less than $125.

   (G)   Manufactured-home and factory-built building fees are set by
the State of Arizona Department of Housing in May or June of the year,
and are applicable to that fiscal year as of July 1.

   (H)   Commercial valuation.

      (1)   Construction type. All commercial buildings have a
construction type as defined in Chapter 6 of the currently adopted
International Building Code (“IBC”). The registered design professional
(“RDP”) is responsible for determining the appropriate construction type
for existing buildings and for setting the construction type for new
commercial buildings. For tenant finish projects, the owner or owner’s
representative shall provide the construction type. The Building
Division does not set or determine the construction type.

      (2)   Occupancy group. All commercial buildings and spaces will be
classified per Chapter 3 of the currently adopted IBC. The owner, tenant
or RDP will determine the correct occupancy group for the space or
building. If a mixed use building is being proposed, the applicant shall
work with the Building and Safety Manager to determine the appropriate
mix of uses and applicable areas for valuation determination.

      (3)   (a)   Valuation is determined by multiplying the square
footage as determined per § 4-4-1(E)(f)1. and 2. by the applicable per
square foot valuation determined, based on the applicable construction
type and occupancy group from the August 2018 ICC Building Valuation
Table.

         (b)    Fabric/membrane-covered structures shall be valued at
50% of the tabular amount for Construction Type V-B and applicable
group.

   (I)   Amount due at time of application.

      (1)   Administrative fees. Where applicable, the full amount is
due at application.

      (2)   Technology and GIS fees. Technology and GIS fees are due at
application.

      (3)   Plan review and inspection fees. Where a minimum is
applicable, plan review and inspection fees are due at application.

      (4)   One- and two-family residential. A deposit equal to 40% of
the calculated building permit fee is due at application. The minimum
due at permit application shall be no less than $95 for residential
permits requiring review. Permit application deposit fees are a part of
the building permit fee and shall be credited against the total fees at
permit issuance. Flat fees are due at time of permit application.

      (5)   Park models. A deposit equal to 50% of the calculated
building permit fee is due at application. The minimum due at permit
application shall be no less than $95 for residential permits requiring
review. Flat fees are due at time of permit application.

      (6)   Manufactured homes/factory-built building. For set permits,
100% of fee is due at application; and for awnings, 50% of calculated
fee is due. Flat fees are due at time of permit application.

      (7)   Commercial (industrial) and storage tanks. A deposit equal
to 40% of the calculated building permit fee is due at application. The
minimum due at permit application shall be no less than $155 for
commercial permits requiring review. Permit application deposit fees are
a part of the building permit fee and shall be credited against the
total fees at permit issuance. Flat fees are due at time of permit
application.

      (8)   Demolition and miscellaneous. Fees are due at permit
submittal.

      (9)   Electrical, mechanical/fuel gas and plumbing. Fees are due
at permit submittal.

   (J)   Exceptions. The following entities are exempt from paying
permit fees:

      (1)   Governmental entities that are, as a matter of law, immune
from having to submit to permit fees; and

      (2)   Utility companies and other entities whose permit fees have
been waived by agreement or resolution of the City Council.

   (K)   A building permit shall not be issued nor considered valid
until all applicable fees established by the city have been paid, nor
shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee(s),
if any, has been paid.

   (L)   Permit application deposit fees pay for the initial plan review
and 1 subsequent re-submittal for the same project made within the
prescribed time limitations. If more than 2 plan reviews are required,
or if the permit application shall expire by time limitation, additional
fees may be assessed as determined appropriate by the Building and
Safety Manager. At the time of permit issuance, additional fees for any
increase in valuation or scope of work shall be assessed as a condition
of permit issuance.

   (M)   The City Manager or designee is authorized to adjust the
resultant valuation amount when deemed necessary for establishing an
equitable permit fee.

   (N)   Fee refund policy. All refund requests must be accompanied by a
request to cancel the permit and payment of the permit cancellation fee.

      (1)   Administrative fees. Administrative fees are not eligible
for refund.

      (2)   Technology and GIS fees. If a refund is allowed for a permit
where one or both of these fees has been paid, then the associated
amount will be included in the refund amount.

      (3)   Plan review and inspection fees. Where a separate plan
review or inspection fee has been charged, the fee or fees are not
eligible for refund.

      (4)   One- and two-family residential. Where the building permit
fee amount is $150 or less, or the amount paid to date, at the time of
cancellation, is $150 or less, no refund will be granted.

         (a)   Once any inspection has been performed under an issued
permit, and has either passed or failed, no refund will be issued for a
residential permit.

         (b)   If a residential permit is issued, and no inspections and
no work, including grading or installation of temporary electric, has
been done, a refund of 50% of the building permit fee amount paid may be
requested. No other fees are eligible for refund.

         (c)   If a residential permit application has been reviewed by
any review entity - zoning, building or flood administration - a refund
of 25% of the deposit paid may be requested. Technology and GIS fees
that have been paid will also be refunded. If the full building permit
fee was paid at time of application, a refund of 70% of the building
permit fee may be requested.

         (d)   If a residential permit is cancelled prior to any reviews
being started, a refund of 65% of the deposit may be requested.
Technology and GIS fees that have been paid will also be refunded. If
the full building permit fee was paid at time of application, a refund
of 86% of the building permit fee may be requested.

      (5)   Park models. Where the building permit fee amount is $150 or
less, or the amount paid to date, at the time of cancellation, is $150
or less, no refund will be granted.

         (a)   If a park model set permit is canceled prior to issuance,
and the full fee was paid at application, then a refund of $150 may be
requested. Associated fees for awnings and HVAC paid for with the park
model set fee will be refunded at 100%.

         (b)   For other refunds, see division (N)(4), One- and
Two-family Residential, above.

      (6)   Manufactured home/factory-built building. Where the building
permit fee amount is $150 or less, or the amount paid to date, at the
time of cancellation, is $150 or less, no refund will be granted.

         (a)   Manufactured home. Where a permit for a manufactured home
set is cancelled prior to issuance, and the full set fee of $360 was
paid at time of application, a refund of $180 can be requested.
Associated fees for awnings and HVAC paid for with the manufactured home
set fee will be refunded at 100%. The manufactured home zoning review
fee is nonrefundable.

         (b)   Residential, factory-built building. Where a permit for a
factory-built building set is cancelled prior to issuance and the full
set fee of $450 was paid at time of application, a refund of $300 can be
requested. Associated fees for awnings and HVAC paid for with the
manufactured home set fee will be refunded at 100%.

         (c)   Commercial, factory-built building. If a commercial,
factory-built building permit application has been reviewed by any
review entity - zoning, building or flood administration - a refund of
25% of the deposit paid may be requested. Technology and GIS fees that
have been paid will also be refunded. If the full building permit fee
was paid at time of application, a refund of 70% of the building permit
fee may be requested. The zoning review fee is non-refundable.

         (d)   Temporary sales trailer. Where a permit for a temporary
sales trailer set is cancelled prior to issuance, and the full set fee
of $360 was paid at time of application, a refund of $180 can be
requested. Associated fees for awnings and HVAC paid for with the
temporary sales trailer set permit fee will be refunded at 100%. The
zoning review fee is non-refundable.

         (e)   Manufactured home stucco. Where a permit for stuccoing
the exterior of a manufactured home is cancelled prior to issuance and
the full fee of $500 was paid at time of application, a refund of $250
can be requested.

      (7)   Commercial (industrial) and storage tanks. Where the
building permit fee amount is $200 or less, or the amount paid to date,
at the time of cancellation, is $200 or less, no refund will be granted.

         (a)   Once any inspection has been performed under an issued
permit, and has either passed or failed, no refund will be issued for a
commercial permit. No refunds will be provided for commercial building
foundation only permits.

         (b)   If a commercial permit is issued, and no inspections and
no work, including grading or installation of temporary electric,
demolition, and the like, has been done, a refund of 50% of the building
permit fee amount paid may be requested. No other fees are eligible for
refund.

         (c)   If a commercial permit application has been reviewed by
any review entity - zoning, building, or flood administration - a refund
of 25% of the deposit paid may be requested. Technology and GIS fees
that have been paid will also be refunded. If the full building permit
fee was paid at time of application, a refund of 70% of the building
permit fee may be requested.

         (d)   If a commercial permit is cancelled prior to any reviews
being started, a refund of 65% of the deposit may be requested.
Technology and GIS fees that have been paid will also be refunded. If
the full building permit fee was paid at time of application, a refund
of 86% of the building permit fee may be requested.

      (8)   Demolition and miscellaneous. No refunds will be provided on
demolition permits. If a demolition permit is canceled, the cancellation
fee will be waived. For walls and fences, a refund of 80% of the amount
paid maybe requested.

      (9)   Electrical, mechanical/fuel gas and plumbing. No refunds
will be issued for standalone electrical, mechanical and plumbing
permits. The fees can be applied to a like-for-like permit at a
different address within 30 working days of the original permit
application.

 

Fee Type

Unit

Fee

Administrative Fees

Construction Board of Appeals

per appeal

$250

Building code modification

per request

$250

Building code studies

per hour

$150

Written documentation of code compliance (2 hours for inspection, 2
hours for research, 2 hours for report)

per request

$750

Investigation fee for construction performed prior to permit issuance.
Minimum (min.) fee $250, not to exceed $2,500.

per incident

($250 min.)

100% of related permit fee

Outside consultation services

 

cost + $100

Minimum administrative fee (admin. fee)

per application

$40

Floodplain administration fee - applicable to all building permits
issued in the A, AE and AH (1%) flood zones

per application

$50

Floodplain elevation certificate review (City Engineer)

per permit

$250

Floodplain base flood elevation determination (City Engineer)

per occurrence

$200

Technology and GIS Fees

Mechanical, electrical and plumbing (standalone permits) technology fee

per permit

2% of permit fee

Residential one- and two-family technology fee

per permit

2% of permit fee

Commercial (industrial) technology fee

per permit

($750 max.)

3.5% of permit fee

GIS fee - all new building or addition permits

per permit

$25

Plan Review

Minimum plan review fee (max. 30 minutes)

min.

$55

Additional plan review fee (min. 1 hr.)

per hour

$110

Hourly plan review fee

per hour

$110

Deferred submittal review (deferment approved before application
submittal)

 

Commercial (1 hour min. + admin. fee) each additional hr. $110

min.

$150

Residential (0.5 hr. min. + admin. fee) each additional 0.5 hr. $55

min.

$95

Commercial plan revision after permit issuance (min. 1 hr. + admin. fee)
Each additional hr. at $110

min.

$150

Residential plan revision after issuance (min. 0.5 hr. + admin. fee).
Each additional 0.5 hr. at $55.

min.

$95

Permit revision (change contractor, owner, and the like) min. 1 hr.

per hour

$40

Permit cancellation

each

$40

Replication of plans (when approved by registered design professional
“RDP”) plus cost

each set

$40

Stamping of additional sets (after 2)

each set

$50

Inspections

Inspections - Fridays (1.5 hr. min.; scheduled by Tuesday prior)

per hour

$90

Inspections - Weekends (Friday, Saturday, Sunday) 3 hr. min.;

Holidays, 4 hr. min.

per hour

 

$90

 

Inspections - outside office hours, Monday-Thursday (1.5 hr. min.)

per hour

$90

Reinspection - same day (max. of 1) mandatory fee

per inspection

$90

Reinspection - next day (inspector discretion)

per inspection

$75

Miscellaneous inspections (includes courtesy inspections)

per hour

$90

Occupancy

Certificate of installation - manufactured home (replacement or
requested more than 8 days after final)

per request

$40

Certificate of completion - residential (replacement or requested more
than 8 days after final)

per request

$40

Certificate of completion - commercial shell (replacement or requested
more than 8 days after final)

per request

$80

Certificate of occupancy - new commercial (replacement or requested more
than 8 days after final)

per request

$100

Certificate of occupancy - tenant improvement (replacement or requested
more than 8 days after final)

per request

$80

Change of occupancy (no work proposed or required)

per request

$150

Temporary certificate of occupancy (maximum 30 days; no more than 2
renewals)

per request

$200

One- and Two-Family Residential

New residential, one- and two-family (1 story - per square foot (sq.
ft.) under roof)

per sq. ft. ($850 min.)

$1.20

   Each additional story and/or basement

per sq. ft.

$1.05

   Occupied roof

per sq. ft.

$0.80

Approved master plan-related permit

new residential one- and two-family building permit fee times 80% (0.80)

Residential addition - 1 to 3 stories each floor

per sq. ft. ($425 min.)

$1.05

Residential addition - add additional story above existing

per sq. ft. ($535 min.)

$1.20

Residential accessory dwelling (guest house)

per sq. ft. ($475 min.)

$1.20

   Each additional story and/or basement

per sq. ft.

$1.05

   Occupied roof

per sq. ft.

$0.80

Residential interior remodel

per sq. ft. ($145 min.)

$0.60

Residential convert carport or garage to living space (habitable)

per sq. ft. ($195 min.)

$0.75

Patio cover/Arizona room - unconditioned (65% glass)

per sq. ft. ($280 min.)

$0.95

Patio/porch roof only attached to one- or two-family dwelling (no walls)

per sq. ft. ($240 min.)

$0.80

Residential accessory - unenclosed (ramada, carport)

per sq. ft. ($280 min.)

$0.85

Residential accessory - enclosed 241 sq. ft. or larger (detached
garage/other)

per sq. ft. ($425 min.)

$1.00

Accessory structure (over 120 sq. ft., less than 241 sq. ft.) (no MEP)

(2 inspections)

flat

$190

Accessory structure (over 120 sq. ft., less than 241 sq. ft. ) (with any
MEP) (3 inspections)

flat

$240

Residential swimming pool/spa - in ground

per sq. ft. of max. width x max. length (min. $300)

$0.90

Residential swimming pool - above ground; prefabricated spas (1
inspection)

flat

$100

Residential spa - in ground (2 inspections)

flat

$250

Residential roof replacement (1 inspection)

flat

$90

Residential building relocation - new foundation

per sq. ft. ($450 min.)

$0.30

Residential exterior stucco - not originally stucco (2 inspections)

flat

$200

Residential window replacement (1 inspection)

flat

$150

Park Models (RVs not designed for constant movement)

Park model set - permanent connections includes up to 480 sq. ft. of
attached awning (HVAC requires separate permit)

flat (per unit)

$300

Park model - patio cover/Arizona room - unconditioned

per sq. ft. ($280 min.)

$0.95

Park model addition - conditioned (no kitchen allowed)

per sq. ft. ($425 min.)

$1.05

Park model - awning

per sq. ft. ($240 min.)

$0.80

Park model convert storage shed to laundry

flat (per space/lot)

$140

Park model remodel

not allowed

-

Park model exterior stucco

not allowed

-

Manufactured Home/Factory-Built Building

Manufactured home (MH) set (includes 3 inspections; additional
inspections $120)

Fee based on State of Arizona Department of Housing Fee Schedule for
current fiscal year

$360

MH A/C installation

(See Mechanical)

-

MH, factory-built building (FBB) residential, zoning review fee

each MH, FBB residential

$55

MH awning (not part of original set permit)

per sq. ft. ($240 min.)

$0.80

MH - addition to - See Residential addition

-

-

MH remodeling, repair residential interior remodel

flat

$200

FBB residential set (includes 3 inspections; additional inspections
$120)

Fee based on State of Arizona Department of Housing Fee Schedule for
current fiscal year

$450

FBB commercial set, per linear foot, per story (includes 3 inspection;
add. inspections $120)

Fee based on State of Arizona Department of Housing Fee Schedule for
current fiscal year

$4.50

Zoning review for a FBB commercial building (min. 1 hr.)

per hr.

$110

Temporary sales trailer set (3 inspections)

flat

$360

Temporary sales trailer zoning review fee

flat

$55

MH exterior stucco (engineering is required) (3 inspections)

flat

$500

Commercial (Industrial)

Valuation (val.) for commercial construction to be determined per the
August 2018 ICC Building Valuation Table. Using the corresponding
valuation determined, based on the proposed occupancy and type of
construction, multiplied times the square footage of each floor under
roof.

 

 

New commercial building

total val. ($300 min.)

1.20%

Commercial building shell only

80% of total val. ($300 min.)

1.20%

Commercial building foundation only (not deducted from building permit
fee)

15% of total val. ($300 min.)

1.20%

Tenant improvement (TI) - vanilla/minor work

10% of total val. ($225 min.)

1.20%

Tenant improvement/shell buildout (TI)

25% of total val. ($300 min.)

1.20%

Commercial roof replacement (use 10% of occupancy “U”, Type VB for val.)

total val. ($225 min.)

1.00%

Commercial remodel - interior

20% of total val.

1.00%

Commercial addition

total val. ($300 min.)

1.10%

Commercial remodel - exterior (4 inspections)

flat

$400

Commercial exterior stucco - not originally stucco (3 inspections)

flat

$350

Commercial accessory structure - (occupancy S-2, Type VB)

total val. ($350 min.)

1.00%

Public/semi-public swimming pool

per sq. ft. of max. width by max. length ($355 min.)

$1,00

Public/semi-public spa (3 inspections)

flat

$355

Commercial kitchen ventilation and exhaust system - Type 1 hood (not a
part of another permit) (3 inspections)

flat (per hood)

$355

Sign permit - no electrical (1 inspection)

flat

$150

Sign permit - with electrical (2 inspections)

flat

$225

Above Ground Storage Tanks

Flammable/combustible storage tanks 1,001 gallons to 2,000 gallons (3
inspections)

flat

$700

Flammable/combustible storage tanks over 2,000 gallons (4 inspections)

flat

$1,000

Demolition

One-/two-family residential (1 inspection)

flat

$120

Residential accessory (1 inspection)

flat

$100

Commercial/non-residential (including interior demo separate from
remodeling, tenant improvement permit) (2 inspections)

flat

$240

Miscellaneous

Construction trailer (1 inspection)

flat

$150

Walls - retaining wall over 48 inches from top of wall to bottom of
footer; themed, perimeter and privacy over 6 feet in height

per linear foot ($170 min.)

$1.60

Fences - block, wood, wrought iron, chain-link, other privacy, and the
like, over 6 feet in height

per linear foot ($100 min.)

$1.10

Electrical

Electrical meter clearance existing service - residential

per service

$100

Electrical meter clearance existing service - commercial

per service

$125

New/replace/upgrade one-/two-family residential service, not greater
than 200 amps

per service

$200

New/replace/upgrade one/two-family residential service, greater than 200
amps

per amp

($220 min.)

$1.00

Electrical panel derate, residential

per service

$100

New/replace/upgrade multifamily residential service, not greater than
800 amps - base $220 plus $50 per meter

per building

$220

New/replace/upgrade commercial electrical service, not greater than 200
amps

per service

$250

New/replace/upgrade commercial electrical service greater than 200
amps - base $310 plus $ 1.20 per amp plus $50 per meter

per amp ($310 min.)

$1.20

New/replace/upgrade pedestal for manufactured home, park model or RV
space not over 200 amps (for over 200 amps, follow one- and two-family
fees)

per service

$200

Electrical repair/branch circuit or lighting additions, residential,
includes 1 inspection - base $120 (additional inspections $75 per)

per dwelling unit

$120

Electrical repair/branch circuit or lighting additions, commercial

(1 inspection)

per building or tenant space

$150

Temporary electrical service for new construction - included in building
permit fee

-

included

Temporary electrical service not associated with a permitted project

(1 inspection)

per meter

$150

Generator, permanent residential, includes transfer switch

per dwelling unit

$200

Generator, permanent commercial, includes transfer switch - base $250
plus $0.10 watt above 20,000 watts

per watt

($250 min.)

$0.10

Photovoltaic system, residential, no storage battery

per dwelling unit

$170

Photovoltaic system, residential, with storage battery

per dwelling unit

$225

Photovoltaic system, residential modification

per change

$55

Photovoltaic system, commercial, no storage battery, up to 50 kilowatts
(add 1 hour plan review for storage $110)

per location

$300

Photovoltaic system, commercial, no storage battery, 51-100 Kilowatts
(battery - add $110)

per location

$500

Mechanical/Fuel Gas

Commercial HVAC - replace existing RTU, less than 2,000 cfm (plus $100
each additional unit on same building)

per building or unit

$200

Commercial HVAC - replace existing RTU, greater than 2,000 cfm (plus
$100 each additional unit on same building)

per building or unit

$300

Commercial HVAC - add new RTU, unit less than 2,000 cfm

per building or unit

$300

Commercial HVAC - add new RTU unit, 2,000 cfm or greater

per building or unit

$400

Commercial HVAC - add new RTU unit, 2,000 cfm or greater

per building or unit

$400

Commercial HVAC add or replace mini-split, central air or remote
cooler/freezer condenser (plus $50 each additional unit on same
building)

per building or unit

$175

Residential new heat pump, air conditioner, mini-split for park model,
manufactured home, single-family dwelling (1 inspection)

flat

$150

Commercial gas clearance

per meter

$125

Commercial install gas storage tank (250 gallon) $0.50 per liquid gallon
above 250 gallons

per gallon ($250 min.)

$0.50

Residential gas clearance (1 inspection)

flat

$100

Residential install new gas storage tank (100-500 gallon) (2
inspections)

flat

$150

Residential gas line addition, repair or replace up to 50 feet (plus $25
each additional 50-foot increment)

per 50 feet ($115 min.)

$25

Commercial gas line addition, repair or replace up to 50 feet (plus $30
per 50-foot increment)

per 50 feet ($200 min.)

$30

Plumbing

Interior water repipe includes admin. fee and 2 inspections

per dwelling unit

$200

Septic abandonment, no sewer connection

per tank

$100

Septic abandonment with sewer connection

per dwelling unit

$175

Water heater, residential - change fuel/energy source, change type -
tank to tankless, change location

per dwelling unit

$100

Water heater, commercial - change fuel/energy source, change type - tank
to tankless, change location

per dwelling unit

$155

CO2 tanks and piping in existing building

per building or unit

$200

Used grease collection system - tank and piping in existing building

per building or unit

$300

Grease, lint, oil or other interceptor for an existing building.

min.

$300

Residential remodel bathroom when replacing, minimum 3 fixtures, or
change shower type (each additional in same house or unit $75)

min.

$250

Residential relocate toilet or relocate/alter shower/tub

per dwelling unit

$100

Commercial restroom remodel - includes 2 lavatories, 2 toilets;
additional fixtures - $30 each

min.

$300

Residential, roof-mounted solar water heater

per dwelling unit

$170

Residential water/sewer line addition/repair/replace up to 50 feet (plus
$25 each additional 50 foot increment)

per 50 ft. ($115 min.)

$25

Commercial water/sewer line addition/repair/replace up to 50 feet (plus
$30 each additional 50 foot increment)

per 50 ft. ($200 min.)

$30

 

(Ord. 1274, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1278, passed 10-3-2006; Am. Ord.
1469, passed 3-19-2019; Am. Ord. 1482, passed 12-17-2019)

§ 4-4-2 GRADING PERMIT FEES.

 

Type

Fee

Single-family residential lot - outside of a subdivision

$150 (including plan review) for up to 1,000 cubic yards

Commercial development* individual lot -
commercial/industrial/multifamily

$350 (including plan review) (under 1 acre)

Commercial development* subdivision - residential/commercial/industrial

$350 plus $25/acre

*Plan review fees for commercial development are collected at the
improvement plan review stage.

 

(Ord. 1274, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1469, passed 3-19-2019; Am. Ord.
1482, passed 12-17-2019)

§ 4-4-3 PLANNING, SUBDIVISION AND ZONING FEES.

 

Description

Legal Advertising Fees

Conditional Use Permits (CUPs)

Conditional use permit

$250

CUP (residential use/extension/amendment)

$700

CUP (non-residential use/extension/amendment package included if
submitted with CUP)

$800

Sign package by CUP

$800

Landscape ordinance appeal by CUP

$600

Recording fee

$50

Zoning/Rezoning

Rezoning

$1,000

Planned development/master planned community rezoning

$1,500

Planned development (commercial/residential)

$925 + $50/acre to $5,500 maximum

Major amendment to planned development

$925 + $50/acre to $5,500 maximum

Minor amendment to planned development

$250

Zoning ordinance text amendment

$1,300

Zoning text amendment

$1,000

Zoning verification letter

$250

Written interpretation of Zoning Administrator

$150

Review and letter of nonconforming

$250

Recording fee

$50

Appeals

Board of Adjustment and Appeals

$100

Residential variance

$500

Non-residential variance

$750

Appeal of Zoning Administrator’s decision (residential)

Board of Adjustment and Appeals - $100, plus $400 (stenographer and 3rd
party attorney to represent the Board - total of $500

Appeal of Zoning Administrator’s decision (non-residential)

Board of Adjustment and Appeals - $100, plus $400 (stenographer and 3rd
party attorney to represent the Board - total of $500

Appeal of Development Fee Administrator

$350

Recording fee

$50

Development Agreements

Development agreement (new)

$3,075

Development agreement (amendment that is developer-initiated)

$1,675

Recording fee

$50

Permits

Administrative use permit

$25

Cargo container/portable storage permit

$100

Special density permit, caretaker unit permit

$100

Special density permit, annual renewal

$50

Temporary use permit

$250

MS4 stormwater/erosion control permit (area greater than 1 acre)

   Individual lot - outside of platted subdivision

$120

   Subdivision

$1,500

Subdivisions

Preliminary plat

$1,575 + $21/lot to $2,500 maximum

Preliminary plat amendment

1,575 + $21/lot to $5,500 maximum

Preliminary plat extension

$500

Final plat

$1,575 + $21/lot to $2,500 maximum

Final plat amendment/replat

$1,575 + $21/lot to $2,500 maximum

Plat recordation fee and document handling

$100 plus actual recording fee

Minor land division/land split

$350 for 3 reviews,

additional $150 for each review

Lot combination

$250

Lot line adjustment

$250

General Plan Amendment

$400

Text amendment

$1,300

Minor general plan amendment

$1,250

Major map amendment

$1,550 + $10/acre to $5,500 maximum

Minor map amendment

Included in rezoning

GIS/Address Fees (address fee - CAD dispatch, update GIS layers)

Address change

$50

Rezoning CUP, AUP permits

$25

Subdivision plat

$5 per lot

Lot split/combo/lot line adjustment

$50

Pre-application/Site Plan/Sign Permit Fees

Pre-application/site plan review commercial development/subdivision fee

 

   Pre-application review

$250

   Site plan review fee

$1,250

Sign Permit fees - zoning review

 

   1) Comprehensive sign package

$900

   2) Temporary signs - 30-90 days

$125

   3) Monument/wall

$125

   4) Projecting/blade

n/c

Miscellaneous Fees

Landscape plan review

$150

All continuances

$250

Required public hearing notice advertising

Flat fees

Administrative relief (residential)

$150

Administrative relief (commercial)

$250

Copies - 11" x 17"

$0.50/ sheet 11" x 17"

Copies - larger than 11" x 17"

$0.19/linear foot

Copies - for commercial use

$0.50/page for 8" x 11"

Technology fee (per application)

4%

Group home applications/registration inspection

$60

Homeowner site plan preparation

$30

Annexation processing

$1,500 + $25 per each additional parcel

Formation of community facilities districts, plus deposit

$15,000 + $60,000 deposit

CFD development agreement

$15,000

CFD development agreement amendments

$5,000

Zoning entitlement process for Master Planned Communities ("MPC")

$25,000 + $30/ac

MPC development agreement

$20,000

MPC development agreement amendments

$5,000

Major amendment to MPC districts

$25,000 + $30/ac

Minor amendment to MPC districts

$3,000

MPC development unit plans

$3,000 + $60/ac up to 100 ac,

plus $20/ac from 101 ac to 200 ac, + $10/ac over 200 ac

Major amendment to MPC development unit plans

$3,000

Minor amendment to MPC development unit plans

$1,250

MPC unit plan pre-application meetings

$1,500

MPC pre-application meetings

$2,500

Customized review schedule

double application fees

 

(Ord. 1422, passed 4-5-2016; Am. Ord. 1469, passed 3-19-2019; Am. Ord.
1482, passed 12-17-2019; Am. Ord. 1498, passed 1-20-2021)

§ 4-4-4 DEVELOPMENT SERVICES ENGINEERING FEES.

 

Fee Type

Unit

Fee*

Technical Study/Document Review Fees

Drainage reports

lump sum

$400

Water analysis report

lump sum

$300

Sewer analysis report

lump sum

$300

Traffic impact statement

lump sum

$200

Traffic impact analysis

lump sum

$500

Geotechnical report

lump sum

$250

Engineer’s cost estimate

lump sum

$200

SLID documents

lump sum

$750

ROW/easement dedication documents

lump sum

$300

Map of dedication

lump sum

$300

FPE extinguishment/ROW abandonment

lump sum

$400

Engineering Plan Review Fees

 

 

ALTA/ACSM survey

lump sum

$140

Preliminary plat

lump sum

$900

Final plat

lump sum

$900

*Fee includes 3 reviews, subsequent reviews are charged $110/hour

Onsite improvement plans (cover sheets and notes sheet, G&D, utilities,
details, street improvements, SWPPP)

per sheet

$250

Offsite improvement plans (G&D, utilities, details, street improvements,
street lights, traffic signals, SWPPP)

per sheet

$250

Offsite special provisions

lump sum

$450

FEMA SFHA review

lump sum

$450

Revisions to approved plans

per sheet

$200

Onsite as-built plan review

per sheet

$40

Offsite as-built plan review

per sheet

$40

*Fee includes 3 reviews, subsequent reviews are charged $110/hour

 

(Ord. 1274, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1469, passed 3-19-2019)

ARTICLE 4-5: RESERVED

[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 4-6: PUBLIC WORKS FEE SCHEDULE

Section

   4-6-1   Public Works fee schedule

   4-6-2   Small wireless facilities rights-of-way fees and charges

§ 4-6-1 PUBLIC WORKS FEE SCHEDULE.

   Roadway abandonment and right-of-way easement extinguishment fees:

   (A)   Application and filing processing fee for abutting industrial,
commercial or multi-family property: $450 per application;

   (B)   Application and filing processing fee for abutting residential
property: $350 per application; and

   (C)   Abandonment fee for abutting residential property: $100 per
application.

   (D)   Applicant shall, before any permit is issued, provide the city
with a fee to offset expenses incurred in connection with processing and
inspecting work.

   (E)   Development’s plan review fees:

 

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  Design report, drainage report, traffic impact analysis (first, second, and third review)   $200 per report
  Design report, drainage report, traffic impact analysis (fourth review)                     $75 per report
  First review of improvement plans (off-site improvements only)                              $200
  Second review and third review of off-site improvements                                     No charge
  Fourth review of improvement plans (off site improvements only)                             $50 per sheet
  Revision/changes after plan approval                                                        $50 per change
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------

 

   (F)   Engineering permit inspection fees:

 

  --------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------
  Description                                   Unit Cost                    Unit

  Permit application fee                        $50                          EA

  Curb, Curb & gutter                           $0.20                        LF

  Driveway                                      $0.10                        SF

  Sidewalk                                      $0.10                        SF

  Sidewalk ramp                                 $25                          EA

  Valley gutter                                 $0.30                        SF

  Catch basin                                   $35                          EA

  Headwall                                      $35                          EA

  Manhole                                       $40                          EA

  Scupper                                       $25                          EA

  Dirt/concrete channel                         $0.10                        LF

  Conduit, pipeline, culverts, cable < 4"       $0.40                        LF

  Conduit, pipeline, culverts, cable > 4"       $1                           LF

  Landscaping                                   $0.05                        SF

  Fire hydrants                                 $15                          EA

  Tap/sleeve/valves/meters                      $3                           EA

  Special concrete structure                    $40                          EA

  Pavement replacement                          $0.35                        SY

  Mill and overlay (SY)                         $0.25                        SY

  Overlay top course                            $0.15                        SY

  Asphalt cuts on new streets within 2 yr:                                   

     5 sq. yds. or less                         $330                         SY

     5 sq. yds. to 100 sq. yds.                 $1,650+$18/SY over 5 SY      SY

     Larger than 100 sq. yds.                   $3,360+$14/SY over 100 SY    SY

  Asphalt cuts on new streets 2 yrs - 4 yrs:                                 

     5 sq. yds. or less                         $230                         SY

     5 sq. yds. to 100 sq. yds.                 $1,150.00+$13/SY over 5 SY   SY

     Larger than 100 sq. yds.                   $2,385+$10/SY over 100 SY    SY

  Asphalt cuts on new streets 4 yrs - 6 yrs:                                 

     5 sq. yds. or less                         $130                         SY

     5 sq. yds. to 100 sq. yds.                 $650+$8/SY over 5 SY         SY

     Larger than 100 sq. yds.                   $1,410+$5/SY over 100 SY     SY

  Asphalt cuts, pit backfill, patch on 6+yrs.   $1.50                        SY

  Survey monuments                              $10                          EA

  Utility adjustments                           $10                          EA

  Manhole adjustment                            $50                          EA

  Street lights                                 $50                          EA

  Utility poles                                 $35                          EA

  Street signs                                  $15                          EA

  Trenching and boring (LF)                     $0.30                        LF

  Boring only (LF)                              $0.20                        LF

  Fire line with backflow                       $40                          EA

  Overtime inspections:                                                      

     Weekdays (1 hr. min.)                      $90                          HR

     Weekends (4 hr. min.)                      $90                          HR

     Holidays (4 hr. min.)                      $120                         HR

  Other:                                        TBD                          LS
                                                                             
  (Special work not incl. in fee schedule)                                   
  --------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------

 

   (G)   Inspection for which no rate is specified will be determined by
the public works department. Inspections by the director of public works
for work performed on weekends, holidays and after normal working hours
must be requested in advance by the applicant or contractor.
Authorization to work must be mutually agreed upon by the director of
public works and the applicant and/or contractor prior to the
commencement of work. Fees for overtime inspections are as follows:

 

  ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------
  Description                                    Cost
  Weekdays (before/after normal working hours)   $90 per hour, 1-hour minimum
  Weekends (Friday, Saturday, & Sunday)          $90 per hour, 4-hour minimum
  Holidays                                       $120 per hour, 4-hour minimum
  ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------

 

   (H)   Requests for inspections or plan reviews beyond normal working
hours may be performed at the pleasure of the city as a courtesy to the
applicant and is not intended to be a mandated service. This extra work
may be performed by the city predicated on the availability of manpower
and the employee1s agreement to work, accordingly .providing their
normal job requirements and health are not negatively impacted.

(Ord. 1425, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 4-6-2 SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES RIGHTS-OF-WAY FEES AND CHARGES.

   (A)   The following schedule of fees shall apply to a small wireless
facilities (“SWF”) placed in public rights-of-way (“ROW”):

 

  -------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ROW use fee                                                    $50/year x number of SWFs
  ROW use fee for monopoles and associated wireless facilities   Limited to not more than the direct and actual cost of managing the ROW as determined by the public works department
  Authority utility pole attachment                              $50/year
  SWF collocation                                                $100 per SWF up to five $50 per additional SWF
  -------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

 

Batched applications up to 25 SWFs :

First five SWFs at $100

$500

Additional 20 sites at $50

$1,000

Total for batch of 25

$1,500

 

 

Applications submitted from July 1 - December 31 of any given year:

Annual use fee - city ROW

$25

Annual use fee - city pole in ROW

$25

 

 

Ordinary permit use fee:

SWF as defined in A.R.S. § 9-591(19)

$750.00

SWF as defined in A.R.S. § 9-594

$1,000

 

 

Utility pole and monopole applications:

New, replacement or modified utility poles

$750

 

 

Violation use fees*:

Failure to restore ROW or correct violations of specifications, code,
ordinance or standards within ten (10) business days after receiving
notice to correct.

$600 per day

Failure to make books and records available.

$250 per day

Any action or non-action by Provider contrary to Standard Terms that
causes inconvenience costs and is not cured after three (3) business
days notice.

$500 per occurrence

 

* Violation use fee is in addition to any cost the city may incur to
restore the ROW or correct the violation.

   (B)   Assignment fee: provider shall pay to city in advance five
hundred dollars ($500) non-refundable fee for legal, administrative and
other expenses related to each pre-approved assignment or to any request
for a consent to assign, whether or not City grants such request.

   (C)   Late fees: should any violation use fee not be paid on or
before the due date, a late fee in the amount of the greater of ten
percent (10%) or one hundred dollars ($100) shall be applied. Any
violation use fee that is not timely paid shall accrue interest at the
rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month from the date the
amount first came due.

(Ord. 1454, passed 12-5-2017)

ARTICLE 4-7: PUBLIC SAFETY FEE SCHEDULE

Section

   4-7-1   Public safety fee schedule

§ 4-7-1 PUBLIC SAFETY FEE SCHEDULE.

   (A)   Department, accident reports and computer aided dispatch
(“CAD”) requests:

   (B)   Certified copies of department and accident reports: $10.00 for
pages 1 through 20, $0.50 for each page thereafter.

      (1)   Documents/reports. Certified copies of reports: $10.00 for
pages 1 through 20, $5.00 for each page thereafter; Certified copies of
miscellaneous documents: $10.00, $5.00 for each page thereafter.

      (2)   Victims of crime: no charge.

   (C)   Photos:

      (1)   Photos associated with report and CAD dispatch event:
$10.00.

      (2)   Miscellaneous photo: $10.00.

 

  -------------------------------- ---------------------
  3 by 5 color                     $5.00 each photo
  8 by 10 color                    $5.00 each photo
  Polaroids                        $5.00 each photo
  8-1/2 by 11 color copies sheet   $5.00 each sheet
  8-1/2 by 14 color copies sheet   $6.00 each sheet
  11 by 17 color copies sheet      $7.00 each sheet
  Negative duplication             $5.00 each negative
  -------------------------------- ---------------------

 

   (D)   Audio: $10.00 each for audio recording, dispatch audio
associated with event, and miscellaneous other audio.

   (E)   Crime statistics: $10.00 for pages 1 through 20, $0.25 for each
page thereafter.

   (F)   Letters of clearance: $10.00 each.

   (G)   Media drive: $10.00.

   (H)   Body worn camera (“BWC”) footage: $46.00 per hour reviewed of
all submmitted BWC footage associated with a report or CAD dispatch
event and miscellaneous video footage.

   (I)   Security alarm permit fees.

 

 

  ----------------- ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Alarm User        Description                         Fee
  Residential       Initial registration                $15.00
                    Annual renewal                      $15.00
                    Reinstatement fee                   $25.00
                    First and second false alarm        No fee
                    Third false alarm                   $50.00
                    Each subsequent false alarm         $50.00 increments
  Commercial        Initial registration                $25.00
                    Annual renewal                      $25.00
                    Reinstatement fee                   $25.00
                    First false alarm                   No fee
                    Second false alarm                  $50.00
                    Each subsequent false alarm         $50.00 increments
                    First false panic alarm             No fee
  Alarm User        Description                         Fee
                    Second false panic alarm            $100.00
                    Each subsequent false panic alarm   $200.00
  Non-registere d   First false alarm                   $100.00
                    Second false alarm                  $200.00
                    Each subsequent false alarm         See Apache Junction City Code, Vol. I, Chapter 16, § 16-1-5(C) (2)(I)
  ----------------- ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

 

   (J)   Fingerprinting: $10.00 each fingerprint card.

   (K)   Local records check: $5.00 for each name.

   (L)   A $150.00 fee is hereby established for the release of properly
immobilized or impounded vehicles and for the administrative costs
relating to vehicle removal, immobilization and impoundment by the
request of Apache Junction Police Department representatives.

(Prior Code, Art. 4-7) (Am. Ord. 1263, passed 4-4-2006; Am. Ord. 1333,
passed 1-20-2009; Am. Ord. 1435, passed 1-17-2017; Am. Ord. 1551, passed
8-6-2024)

ARTICLE 4-8: MUNICIPAL COURT FEE SCHEDULE

Section

   4-8-1   Municipal Court fee schedule

§ 4-8-1 MUNICIPAL COURT FEE SCHEDULE.

   (A)   Payment of costs of confinement. Any person who is convicted of
a misdemeanor criminal offense in the Municipal Court and who, as a
consequence, is incarcerated in the Pinal or Maricopa County jail or the
city jail, or other city or county jail system, may as part of any
sentence imposed, be required to reimburse the City of Apache Junction
for its expenses incurred for such confinement. The cost shall take into
account the announced billing practices of the Pinal or Maricopa County
Sheriff or other applicable authority as they are amended from time to
time.

   (B)   Administrative fee for warrants for failure to comply. When the
Municipal Court issues a warrant for failure to pay a fine, restitution
or any monetary obligation, or for failure to comply with a term or
condition of sentence, an administrative fee of $75 shall be imposed
upon the person for whom the warrant is issued. This fee shall be added
to the amount set forth in the warrant.

   (C)   Administrative fee for default judgments on civil traffic
violation cases. The Municipal Court shall assess the defendant a
default fee of $50 for each default judgment entered in a civil traffic
violation case upon a failure to appear or failure to pay a civil
sanction, unless the default judgment is set aside under the Rules of
Procedure for Traffic Violations.

   (D)   Administrative fee for court appointed counsel. The Municipal
Court shall assess the defendant an administrative fee of $125 for the
appointment of defense counsel payable as a condition of probation.

   (E)   Municipal Court Enhancement Fund.

      (1)   There is hereby created a Municipal Court Enhancement Fund,
which shall be used exclusively to improve the technological,
operational and security capabilities of the Municipal Court.

      (2)   The Municipal Court Enhancement Fund shall be assessed in
the base amount of $20, which shall be applied by the Municipal Court on
each civil and criminal charge where a fine, sanction, penalty or
assessment is imposed by the court. Any surcharge, fee, assessment or
other sum required to be charged by state law or Arizona Supreme Court
Rule as an addition to the base amount of $20 shall also be imposed by
the court.

      (3)   The Court Enhancement Fund shall be designated as a fund
account. The City Finance Director or his or her designee, shall invest
the monies in the fund in the same manner as general city funds.
Interest earned on fund monies shall be deposited in the fund.

      (4)   The Municipal Court shall administer the fund and may make
expenditures from the fund for the purposes approved in this section.

   (F)   Collection fees and charges. For restitution, fines, sanctions,
surcharges, assessments, penalties, bonds, costs and fees that are
forwarded to a collection agency for collection, the Municipal Court
shall assess the defendant a collection fee and charge in the amount of
any fees or charges assessed by the collection agency which is licensed
under state law or authorized to pursue collection activities in the
Supreme Court of Arizona.

   (G)   Copying, certification, filing and other miscellaneous
collection fees.

      (1)   The Municipal Court is authorized to collect all
court-related fees and costs imposed by or created by other ordinances,
laws and statutes, such as, but not limited to, copying, certification,
City Clerk research, payment history report, notary services and check
returns.

      (2)   Charges shall be assessed pursuant to the applicable amount
at the time of the service.

   (H)   Court deferred prosecution/diversion fee. A deferred
prosecution fee/diversion fee in the amount of $50 shall be imposed on
each criminal charge for each criminal case which the court defers or
diverts prosecution thereon.

   (I)   Authority to waive fees and costs. A magistrate may waive all
or any part of any fee or cost provided for or created by this article,
giving consideration to an individual’s indigence or financial hardship
and the interests of justice.

   (J)   Prosecution assessment recovery fee. A prosecution assessment
recovery fee in the amount of $86 shall be imposed on each criminal case
and shall be applied by the Municipal Court on all criminal cases that
are prosecuted by the City Attorney’s office.

   (K)   Probation fees.

      (1)   Any person accepting probation and ordered to be screened
for probation qualification shall pay the cost of such screening which,
if done by the Apache Junction Municipal Court probation monitor, shall
be a fee of $65.

      (2)   The Municipal Court shall assess each defendant placed on
court-monitored probation, a monitoring fee of $50 a month and shall
assess defendants ordered to complete education, treatment and/or
counseling a verification fee of $50.

      (3)   Any person, after accepting the terms of probation, who
fails to appear at the time and place set by the probation officer for
an appointment with a probation officer shall be assessed a missed
appointment fee in the amount of $15.

      (4)   A separate collection account will be established by the
City Finance Department to accrue fees paid under this section.

(Prior Code, Art. 4-8) (Am. Ord. 1332, passed 1-20-2009; Am. Ord. 1357,
passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 1366, passed 8-3-2010)

CHAPTER 5: MUNICIPAL COURT

      Article

         5-1.   MUNICIPAL COURT

ARTICLE 5-1: MUNICIPAL COURT

Section

   5-1-1   Municipal court established; jurisdiction

   5-1-2   Definitions

   5-1-3   Presiding Magistrate

   5-1-4   Qualification of municipal court judges

   5-1-5   Hearing officers

   5-1-6   Judicial assistants

   5-1-7   Powers and duties of Presiding Magistrate

   5-1-8   Proceedings of court

   5-1-9   Formation and summoning of juries; juror pay

   5-1-10   Court personnel

   5-1-11   Home detention and continuous alcohol monitoring

§ 5-1-1 MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION.

   The municipal court is established as a separate, independent branch
of city government, which has exclusive jurisdiction of all violations
of the city code, and jurisdiction concurrently with justices of the
peace of precincts in which the city is located for violations of all
misdemeanors committed within the limits of the city (inclusive of city
code and state statute crimes).

(Ord. 1400, passed 5-6-2014; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 9-21-2021)

§ 5-1-2 DEFINITIONS.

   The following words, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.

   ASSOCIATE MAGISTRATE. A full- or part-time termed judge of the city
court, appointed by the City Council, other than the Presiding
Magistrate.

   CITY MAGISTRATE. Any judge of the municipal court, including the
Presiding Magistrate, Associate Magistrate, and Interim Magistrate, all
of whom have attended the Judicial College or New Judge Orientation
required by the Administrative Office of the Courts, passed any required
exam.

   CIVIL TRAFFIC HEARING OFFICER. A city court employee assigned special
duties by the Presiding Magistrate pursuant to the city code.

   DISCIPLINARY ACTION. Action taken by the State Bar of Arizona or the
Supreme Court of Arizona, or any other licensing authority for attorneys
or judges including reprimand, censure, suspension or disbarment.

   INTERIM MAGISTRATE. A judge appointed by the City Council to perform
the duties of a presiding magistrate during an absence or vacancy
greater than 3 weeks, but not greater than 6 months.

   JUDICIAL ASSISTANT. A full- or part-time termed administrative
contractual non-attorney and non-career employee of the city appointed
by the Council, charged with performing administrative non-judicial and
Associate Magistrate ministerial or clerical non-discretionary judicial
duties in the absence or unavailability of the Presiding Magistrate.

   MINISTERIAL OR CLERICAL NON- DISCRETIONARY JUDICIAL DUTIES. Tasks
that a judicial assistant may perform that do not require an
individualized evaluation but instead concentrate on technical skills
and training, including the processing of plea agreements with
definitive conditions not allowing changes by a judicial officer,
continuances of pretrial matters, and initial appearances pursuant to
Arizona Criminal Procedure Rule 4 and arraignments pursuant to Arizona
Criminal Procedure Rule 14, and only uncontested hearings or motions.

   PRESIDING MAGISTRATE. The full- time termed judge appointed by
Council, charged with the management and administrative responsibility
of the municipal court.

(Ord. 1400, passed 5-6-2014; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 9-21-2021)

§ 5-1-3 PRESIDING MAGISTRATE.

   (A)   The presiding officer of the municipal court shall be the
Presiding Magistrate, who shall be appointed by the Council for a
minimum term of 2 years with the dates of the term to be set by
contract. The Council may suspend, discipline or remove any city
magistrate as follows:

      (1)   If the judge pleads guilty or no contest, or is found
guilty, of a crime punishable as a felony under any laws of this state,
another state, or a federal law, or of any other crime that involves
moral turpitude under the laws of this state;

      (2)   If the judge has a disability that prevents the judge from
performing the essential functions of the position;

      (3)   If the judge engages in actions constituting willful
misconduct in office, willful and persistent failure to perform his or
her duties, or conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice that
brings the judiciary into disrepute; or

      (4)   If the judge is subjected to disciplinary action by the
Arizona Supreme Court or State Bar of Arizona.

   (B)   The Presiding Magistrate shall be considered a non-career
contract employee after being appointed and all other terms shall be
negotiated and set forth in a written employment contract.

   (C)   The City Council shall appoint 1 or more full- and/or part-time
magistrates for a term as the City Council deems necessary pursuant to
this chapter. In the event of an absence or vacancy in the position of
Presiding or Associate Magistrate, Council may appoint an interim
magistrate who must meet all of the requirements as a city magistrate.

(Ord. 1400, passed 5-6-2014; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 9-21-2021)

§ 5-1-4 QUALIFICATIONS OF CITY MAGISTRATES.

   Every magistrate shall:

   (A)   Be an active member of the State Bar of Arizona in good
standing for at least 5 years prior to appointment;

   (B)   Have no discipline by any State Bar or State Supreme Court for
a period of 10 years prior to appointment.

(Ord. 1400, passed 5-6-2014; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 9-21-2021)

§ 5-1-5 HEARING OFFICERS.

   Civil traffic hearing officers shall:

   (A)   Be assigned to 1 or more employees of the magistrate court at
the discretion of the Presiding Magistrate, provided such duties are
listed in the job duties of such positions;

   (B)   Meet the qualifications established by the Arizona Supreme
Court for such officers to be eligible for the special assignment;

   (C)   Have the authority to hear cases involving civil traffic
matters arising under state law or city code, cases involving orders of
protection, injunctions against harassment, and such other civil cases
as may be authorized by law; and

   (D)   Not receive additional compensation for performing such duties.

(Ord. 1400, passed 5-6-2014; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 9-21-2021)

§ 5-1-6 JUDICIAL ASSISTANTS.

   (A)   In the absence of the Presiding Magistrate, or in instances
where the Presiding Magistrate has been disqualified by the action of
the prosecution, defendant, recusation on the part of the Presiding
Magistrate or other cause, a judicial assistant may hear such criminal
action. However, judicial assistants may only perform ministerial or
clerical non-discretionary judicial duties on these matters as defined
in this chapter under definitions and administrative non-judicial duties
as assigned by the Presiding Magistrate. If such judicial assistant has
been privy to ex parte communications or has conducted independent
factual research about a case while acting as court administrative
staff, the judicial assistant shall not perform any magistrate duties in
such case.

   (B)   Judicial assistants shall be appointed by the Council upon
recommendation by the Presiding Magistrate with a minimum of a 2-year
written contract as a non-career contract employee.

   (C)   Judicial assistants do not have to be active members of the
State Bar of Arizona.

   (D)   Judicial assistants shall complete the New Judge Orientation,
pass the exam as required by the Administrative Office of the Courts.

   (E)   Under no circumstances may a judicial assistant perform
criminal trials, civil injunctions against harassment or orders of
protection hearings, but they may serve as a civil hearing officer in
other cases.

(Ord. 1400, passed 5-6-2014; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 9-21-2021)

§ 5-1-7 POWERS AND DUTIES OF PRESIDING MAGISTRATE.

   The powers and duties of the Presiding Magistrate shall include:

   (A)   Those set forth and conferred upon the magistrate under the
provisions of the state constitution and statutes, administrative orders
of the State Supreme Court or Superior Court, and the ordinances and
resolutions of the city;

   (B)   The keeping of a docket in which shall be entered each action
and the proceedings of the court therein;

   (C)   Responsibility over fixing and receiving all bonds and bails
and receiving all fines, penalties, fees and other monies as provided by
law;

   (D)   Payment of all fines, penalties and other monies collected by
the court to the City Finance Director or his or her designee;

   (E)   Monthly report submittal to the Council summarizing court
activities;

   (F)   Preparation of a schedule of traffic violations listing
specific bail for each violation;

   (G)   Supervision of the judicial and internal administrative
functions of the municipal court in a professional manner utilizing
appropriate management techniques to organize and direct the efficient
operation of the court;

   (H)   Department director status as a non-career employee under the
Apache Junction Personnel Rules, and shall as any director, manage
municipal court employee grievance procedures, termination, evaluation
or other personnel related matters;

   (I)   Delegation of duties and responsibilities to and supervision of
judicial and non-judicial personnel as necessary who directly affect the
operation of the court;

   (J)   Establishment and implementation of proper case management
techniques and standards;

   (K)   Determination of judicial assignments for each magistrate and
within guidelines established by Council, establishment and maintenance
of standard working hours and times to effectively discharge these
assignments;

   (L)   Establishment and implementation of standards and parameters
for indigence screening and guidelines for the purpose of appointing
defense counsel;

   (M)   Establishment of specific parameters within the bounds of the
law and sound management practice, under which a defendant shall be
granted the time to pay monetary sentences imposed, and authority to
specify the standards for establishment of payment amounts;

   (N)   Exclusive supervisory authority over all court personnel while
such personnel are performing work for the court, including, but not
limited to, the court administrator, clerical support, courtroom support
staff, and bailiffs and security screeners;

   (O)   Exercising of administrative supervision over the court in
accordance with the principle of judicial independence under the
doctrine of separation of powers as defined in the Arizona State
Constitution, Article III;

   (P)   Exercising similar other administrative authority as necessary
to maintain and enhance the ability of the court to do justice for all
who come before the court;

   (Q)   Cooperation and coordination with the presiding superior court
judge(s) concerning the administration of the municipal court; and

   (R)   Keeping in custody and taking charge of and safely keeping and
disposing of, according to court rules, all books, papers and records
which may be filed or deposited in custody; destruction of all
documents, records, instruments, books, papers, dispositions, exhibits
and transcripts in any action or proceeding in the municipal court or
otherwise filed or deposited in custody pursuant to rules established by
the Supreme Court, and notification to the appropriate state office for
records retention.

(Ord. 1400, passed 5-6-2014; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 9-21-2021)

§ 5-1-8 PROCEEDINGS OF COURT.

   (A)   The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the
Arizona State Constitution, applicable state statutes and rules of the
State Supreme Court pertaining to municipal courts. The proceedings
shall also be conducted in accordance with the Rules of Criminal
Procedure for the Superior Court and pertinent Arizona Revised Statutes
with regard to the following, including but not limited to: filing
complaints, bail, initial appearances, arraignments, taking of pleas,
consideration of plea agreements, conducting trials, orders of
protection, injunctions against harassment, issuance of subpoenas,
summons, warrants and punishment for disobedience so far as applicable
and when not otherwise prescribed.

   (B)   The magistrate shall cause to be prepared a schedule of
criminal traffic or misdemeanor violations listing specific bail for
each violation.

   (C)   The magistrate shall cause to be prepared a schedule of civil
traffic violations, listing a specific deposit for each violation.

   (D)   When the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted either by the
court or by a jury, the court shall pronounce judgment on the plea or
verdict.

   (E)   A sentence of a fine, imprisonment or both, and other things
such as probation, community restitution, victim restitution, counseling
and screening, anger management, and other appropriate requirements, may
be pronounced at the time of sentencing and shall be included in the
judgment and sentencing documents.

   (F)   If the court sentences the defendant to pay a fine, and the
defendant fails to comply with the order, the court, after a hearing,
may order that the defendant receive credit toward payment of the fine
for jail time served as determined by state law for each day of
imprisonment.

   (G)   The sentence shall not extend beyond the term of imprisonment
for which the defendant might be sentenced for the offense of which the
defendant has been found guilty.

   (H)   A sentence and judgment that the defendant pay a fine, with or
without the alternative of imprisonment, shall constitute a lien such as
which can typically be ordered in a civil action.

(Ord. 1400, passed 5-6-2014; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 9-21-2021)

§ 5-1-9 FORMATION AND SUMMONING OF JURIES; JUROR PAY.

   (A)   The formation and summoning of juries and drawing and
disposition of names and impaneling of jurors in municipal court shall
be done in the same manner as provided for by law in courts of record,
or as permitted by A.R.S. § 21-331, and as may be amended from time to
time.

   (B)   Each juror shall be paid by the city for each day in attendance
in the municipal court a sum as provided for in state statutes for
payment of jurors, as may be amended from time to time.

(Ord. 1400, passed 5-6-2014; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 9-21-2021)

§ 5-1-10 COURT PERSONNEL.

   Unless otherwise noted in this chapter, the authority of the
Presiding Magistrate for making decisions regarding the overall function
of the court applies to decisions concerning handling of court mail and
records, hiring, supervision, discipline and dismissal of court
personnel, provided that decisions regarding hiring, supervision and
dismissal of court personnel are consistent with the municipal court
personnel policy. Personnel rules adopted by the city for the
employment, grievance procedures, termination, sick leave, overtime,
vacation time and other items are applicable to employees of the
municipal court, unless otherwise stated in a written policy approved by
the Presiding Magistrate. In employing additional personnel, the
existing city personnel procedures shall be followed.

(Ord. 1400, passed 5-6-2014; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 9-21-2021)

§ 5-1-11 HOME DETENTION AND CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING.

   (A)   As authorized by A.R.S. § 9-499.07, if a person is sentenced to
jail confinement by the municipal court, the court may substitute home
detention or continuous alcohol monitoring, or both, for a portion of
the jail term as provided in this section.

   (B)   A person is not eligible for home detention or continuous
alcohol monitoring when substituted for jail, if any of the following
apply:

      (1)   The person constitutes a risk to himself or herself or other
members of the community;

      (2)   The person has a history of violent behavior;

      (3)   The conviction for which the person is being sentenced is a
domestic violence offense pursuant to A.R.S. § 13-3601;

      (4)   The conviction for which the person is being sentenced is an
act of prostitution or solicitation pursuant to A.R.S. § 13-3214.

   (C)   If the person is sentenced under A.R.S. § 28-1381(K) or A.R.S.
§ 28-1382(D) or (E), the person must first serve a minimum of 20% of the
initial term of incarceration in jail before being placed under home
detention or continuous alcohol monitoring and shall pay the
incarceration costs; if the person is sentenced under A.R.S. §
28-1381(I), the person shall first serve a minimum of 24 hours in jail.

   (D)   A person placed under home detention shall be subject to
electronic monitoring in the person's home, and shall be required to
remain at home during the hours specified by the court. If a person is
sentenced under A.R.S. §§ 28-1381 or 28-1382, the person shall be tested
at least once daily for the use of alcohol or drugs in a manner approved
by the court.

   (E)   If the person attends educational classes or is employed, the
court may permit the person to attend classes or leave home for
employment during specified hours. The court may permit the person to
also attend religious services or funerals, or to seek medical care.

   (F)   The court may require a person under home detention to
participate in community restitution work, or impose other reasonable
requirements or restrictions the court deems necessary.

   (G)   A person under home detention or continuous alcohol monitoring
shall be required to pay the full cost of the electronic monitoring and
alcohol or drug testing, plus administrative fees established by the
Presiding Magistrate. The court may assess a lesser amount, based on the
ability of the person to pay after income verification is confirmed.

   (H)   The court shall terminate a person's home detention or
continuous alcohol monitoring and require the person to complete the
remaining term of the jail sentence by jail confinement, if the court
finds the person has not successfully completed court-ordered alcohol or
drug screening and treatment pursuant to A.R.S. §§ 28-1381 or 28-1382,
or the person has improperly left the home during home detention, or
failed to comply with the continuous alcohol monitoring program
requirements. The court may terminate a person's home detention or
continuous alcohol monitoring and require jail confinement for any other
violation of the terms of the home detention or continuous alcohol
monitoring order.

   (I)   The court may use continuous alcohol monitoring alone or in
conjunction with any other sentence requirements as a term of probation.

   (J)   A person who is in a program pursuant to this section shall
bear the cost of all testing, monitoring and enrollment in the program,
and pay $30 per month while in the program, unless, after determining
the inability of the defendant to pay the cost, the court assesses a
lesser amount. The court shall use the collected monies to offset
operational costs of the program.

   (K)   This program can only be terminated by a majority vote of the
City Council.

   (L)   All other provisions of A.R.S. § 9-499.07 shall be followed by
the court if not already stated above.

(Ord. 1466, passed 11-20-2018; Am. Ord. 1512, passed 9-21-2021)

CHAPTER 6: ANIMALS

      Article

         6-1.   RULES AND REGULATIONS

         6-2.   IMPOUNDING GENERALLY

         6-3.   DOGS

         6-4.   CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENT

         6-5.   CONFINED ANIMALS

         6-6.   KEEPING OF ANIMALS

         6-7.   POTBELLIED PIGS

         6-8.   KEEPING OF SWINE FOR SPECIAL PROJECTS

         6-9.   VIOLATIONS

ARTICLE 6-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS

Section

   6-1-1   Definitions

   6-1-2   Dangerous animals

   6-1-3   Noises

   6-1-4   Strays; housing

   6-1-5   Swine prohibited

   6-1-6   Pet shops

   6-1-7   Commercial dog kennel permits

   6-1-8   Personal dog kennel permits

   6-1-9   Veterinary hospitals

   6-1-10   Wild animals

   6-1-11   Cruelty and neglect

§ 6-1-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   ABANDONMENT. To desert, forsake or give up an animal without having
secured another owner or custodian for the animal, or by failing to
provide the elements of basic care (food, water and shelter).

   A.J.C.C. Apache Junction City Code.

   ALTERED. A spayed female animal or a neutered male animal.

   ANIMAL. Any mammal, bird, reptile or amphibian.

   AT LARGE. In any street, alley, public park, private or public school
property or other public place, or on other private property, without
being attended by a responsible party and without being secured by
physical restraint, such as but not limited to, a leash, chain or rope,
or is otherwise not confined in a secured enclosure.

   CAT. A member of the Felis catus family.

   COLLAR. A band, chain, harness or suitable device worn around the
neck of an animal to which a license may be affixed.

   COMMERCIAL DOG KENNEL. Any establishment, exclusive of one providing
dental, medical or surgical care, that maintains any dogs over 4 months
of age for trade, business, profit or gain.

   COMMERCIAL DOG KENNEL PERMIT. City authorization provided under §
6-1-7 allowing operation of a commercial dog kennel.

   CONSECUTIVE BUSINESS DAYS. Monday through Friday are considered
business days; business days do not include Saturdays, Sundays or city
holidays even if the Animal Control Division is open during these days.

   CONTAMINATION. Anything that is harmful to animals or livestock that
could lead to illness or death.

   CRUEL MISTREATMENT. To torture or otherwise inflict physical injury
upon an animal or to kill an animal in a manner that causes suffering to
such animal.

   CRUEL NEGLECT. To fail to provide an animal with food, water, shelter
or medical treatment required to maintain health.

   DOG. A member of the Canis familiaris family.

   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. Any public or private elementary or
secondary school, or secondary technical or vocational school.

   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any certified peace officer or any City of
Apache Junction Animal Control Officer.

   EQUINE. Horses, mules, burros and asses.

   FEE. Amounts enumerated in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 4-3-1.

   FOOD. A substance of sufficient quantity and nutritious value to
maintain each animal in good health, provided at suitable intervals, but
at least once daily or as otherwise prescribed by a licensed
veterinarian, appropriate to the species.

   FOWL. A bird of any kind, domesticated or wild, including poultry.

   HOUSEHOLD. All individuals who share the same residence, whether
related or unrelated.

   IMPOUND. The act of taking or receiving into custody by the
Enforcement Officer any animal for the purpose of confinement in an
authorized impound facility in accordance with the provisions of this
article.

   IMPOUND FACILITY. Any establishment authorized for the confinement,
maintenance, safekeeping and control of dogs and other animals that come
into the custody of the Enforcement Officer in the performance of his or
her official duties.

   INTENTIONALLY. With respect to a result or to the conduct described
by a law defining an offense where a person’s objective is to cause that
result or to engage in that conduct.

   KENNEL. An enclosed controlled area inaccessible to other animals, in
which a person keeps, harbors or maintains dogs under controlled
conditions.

   KNOWINGLY. With respect to conduct or to a circumstance described by
a law defining an offense, that a person is aware or believes that the
person’sconduct is of that nature or that the circumstance exists; it
does not require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of the act or
omission.

   LIVESTOCK. Bovine, equine, sheep, goats, swine, llamas and ratite.

   MANAGER. A person duly authorized by the owner to conduct business,
act as an agent or otherwise carry out the legal rights and duties of
the owner.

   MANURE. Refuse of stables, yards, corrals or barnyards consisting of
animal, livestock or fowl excreta, with or without litter.

   MEDICAL ATTENTION. Recommended procedures used to treat a particular
disease, injury, infestation or ailment an animal may have in order to
heal, alleviate or lessen the effects of that condition, or to prevent
the animal from experiencing pain and suffering; treatment may be
administered by either a licensed veterinarian appropriate to the
species or the person who has custody or control of such animal,
depending on the severity of the condition and on the knowledge, skills
and ability of the person providing the proper treatment.

   OWNER. Any person exercising care, custody or control of any animal
for more than 6 consecutive calendar days, or claiming any legal
interest in that animal; indicators of ownership also include any
license, permit, certificate, registration or other documentation
establishing a legal interest in such animal.

   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association or
other legal entity.

   PERSONAL DOG KENNEL. Any location where more than 4 dogs are kept,
owned or controlled by a person or entity for companionship, enjoyment
of the species, or for training for field working or obedience trials or
exhibition for organized shows.

   PERSONAL DOG KENNEL PERMIT. City authorization provided under § 6-1-8
allowing a personal dog kennel.

   PET SHOPS. Any commercial establishment at which animals, fowl or
cold-blooded species are kept for sale, groomed or treated for vermin.

   POTBELLIED PIG. Only registered, purebred, miniature, Vietnamese,
potbellied pigs or other similar registered, purebred, miniature,
potbellied pigs.

   PROTRACTED SUFFERING. Allowing an animal to continue suffering a
painful condition.

   PUBLIC NUISANCE. An odor or noise that interferes with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire community or
neighborhood, or by a considerable number of persons; when investigating
public nuisance allegations, the Enforcement Officer shall take into
consideration all factors that support any such allegations, including
but not limited to: distances in which the complaining parties live from
the offensive premises, number of complaining witnesses, number of
complaining parties residing on the street or in the vicinity of the
offensive premises, duration that the conditions existed, prior history
of similar complaints, and communications between the complainants and
the offending party.

   PUBLIC SAFETY DIRECTOR. The person appointed by the City Manager,
pursuant to A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Article 3-6, as the department head of the
Public Safety Department of the city, or his or her appointed designee.

   RABIES QUARANTINE AREA. Any area in which a state of emergency has
been declared to exist due to the occurrence of rabies in animals in or
adjacent to this area.

   RECKLESSLY. With respect to a result or to a circumstance described
by a law defining an offense, of which a person is aware and consciously
disregards, a substantial and unjustifiable risk that the result will
occur or that the circumstance exists; the risk must be of such nature
and degree that disregard of it constitutes a gross deviation from the
standard of conduct that a reasonable person would observe in the
situation; a person who creates such a risk, but who is aware of such
risk solely by reason of voluntary intoxication, also acts recklessly
with respect to such risk.

   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. Any person currently delegated by the owner to
exercise care, custody or control of an animal.

   SHELTER. A protection from the elements, either manmade or natural
with regards to the geographical locations and the type of protection
needed, located within an animal’s enclosure, in order to allow the
animal free choice to utilize such protection. Notwithstanding the
previous sentence, shelter is not required for livestock.

   UNSANITARY PREMISES. Those premises on which animals, livestock or
fowl are kept in a manner that creates insect and rodent breeding,
noxious or offensive odors, or any other condition that is offensive to
the senses of a reasonable person.

   VACCINATION. The administration of an anti-rabies vaccine to animals
by a veterinarian, or an authorized impound facility by employees
trained by a veterinarian licensed by the State of Arizona.

   VETERINARIAN. Any veterinarian licensed to practice in Arizona or any
veterinarian employed in Arizona by a governmental agency.

   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment operated by a veterinarian
licensed to practice in Arizona that provides clinical facilities and
houses animals or birds for dental, medical or surgical treatment; a
veterinary hospital may have adjacent to it, or in conjunction with it,
or as an integral part of it, pens, stalls, cages or kennels for
quarantine, observation or boarding.

   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal of the carnivore order that has a
propensity to attack, to cause injury to or otherwise endanger the
safety of human beings or of other domesticated or companion animals
without provocation, or that has been so declared after a hearing before
a justice of the peace, city magistrate, or superior court judge. Proof
of provocation of any animal attacked by the person injured shall be a
defense to any action for damages or petition for declaration of
viciousness. Provocation shall be measured by whether a reasonable
person would expect that the conduct or circumstances would likely
encourage an animal to attack. This definition does not apply to dogs
utilized by law enforcement officers.

   WATER. A transparent, odorless and tasteless liquid compound of
hydrogen and oxygen, of ambient temperature in sufficient volume as
needed to maintain normal hydration for an animal.

   WILD, DANGEROUS OR UNDOMESTICATED ANIMAL.

      (1)   That which is not of a species customarily used as an
ordinary household pet, but one which would ordinarily be found in the
wilderness of this or any other country, or one which otherwise causes a
reasonable person to be fearful of bodily harm or property damage.
Except as specifically listed below, fish in an aquarium are not
included in this definition.

      (2)   WILD, DANGEROUS, OR UNDOMESTICATED ANIMAL includes:

         (a)   All venomous animals, including rear-fang snakes;

         (b)   Bears (Ursidae species “spp.”);

         (c)   Bison (Bison spp.);

         (d)   Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus);

         (e)   Constrictor snakes, 6 or more feet in length;

         (f)   Coyotes (Canis latrans);

         (g)   Crocodilians (Crocodilia spp.), 30 or more inches in
length;

         (h)   Deer (Cervidae spp.), includes all members of the deer
family, for example, white tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;

         (i)   Elephants (Elephas spp. and Loxodonta spp.);

         (j)   Gamecocks and other fighting birds;

         (k)   Hippopotami (Hippopotamidae spp.);

         (l)   Hyenas (Hyaenidae spp.);

         (m)   Jaguars (Panthera onca);

         (n)   Leopards (Panthera pardus);

         (o)   Lions (Panthera leo);

         (p)   Lynxes (Lynx spp.);

         (q)   Non-human primates, including prosimians, monkeys and
apes;

         (r)   Piranha fish (Characidae spp.);

         (s)   Pumas (Felis concolor), also known as cougars, mountain
lions and panthers;

         (t)   Rhinoceroses (Rhinocero tidae);

         (u)   Sharks (class Chondrichthyes);

         (v)   Snow leopards (Panthera uncid);

         (w)   Tigers (Panthera tigris);

         (x)   Wolves (Canis lupus).

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-1-2 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.

   (A)   It is unlawful to permit any dangerous or vicious animal of any
kind to run at large within the city. Exhibitions or parades of animals
that are ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon
securing a permit from the Public Safety Director.

   (B)   Only Enforcement Officers are authorized to kill any dangerous
animals of any kind when it is necessary for the protection of any
person or property.

   (C)   It is unlawful to own, harbor or maintain any animals of the
wolf hybrid species, except those animals licensed and registered with
the Animal Control Division as of January 30, 1995. Except for renewals,
no wolf hybrid shall be allowed to be licensed after January 30, 1995.
Any license issued for a wolf hybrid shall not be allowed to transfer to
a new owner.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-1-3 NOISES.

   (A)   It is unlawful and hereby declared a public nuisance for any
person to harbor or keep any animals that habitually bark, howl, yelp,
squeal, shriek or make any other sounds that disturb the peace and quiet
of the neighborhood, or in such a manner as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire community or
neighborhood, or by a considerable number of persons. When investigating
public nuisance allegations, the Enforcement Officer shall take into
consideration all factors that support any such allegations, including
but not limited to: distances that the complaining parties live from the
offensive premises, number of complaining witnesses, number of
complaining parties residing on the street or in the vicinity of the
offensive premises, duration that the conditions existed, prior history
of similar complaints, and communications between the complainants and
the offending party.

   (B)   Before an Enforcement Officer cites any person for an animal
noise nuisance under division (A) above, the complaining party and the
alleged offender must first agree to participate in a civil hearing
process administered by the City Manager. The City Manager shall appoint
three city residents who shall convene to hear the complainant’s
allegation against the offending party. The Arizona Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to these proceedings. The panel shall allow both the
complainant and the alleged offender to state their side, and shall
allow any evidence the panel deems helpful in deciding whether there has
been a violation of division (A). The panel shall make the determination
within 5 calendar days after the hearing, and shall make its findings in
writing, signed by all three panel members. The City Manager shall send
the written determination to the Enforcement Officer, the complaining
party and the alleged offender.

   (C)   There is no monetary penalty in a finding against the alleged
offender. However, the Enforcement Officer shall monitor the alleged
offender’s property for additional violations. Should the Enforcement
Officer have probable cause through written witness statements that the
noise has continued, and it interferes with the reasonable use and
enjoyment of the complaining party’s property and in what manner, the
Enforcement Officer shall prepare a class 1 misdemeanor noise citation
and serve it on the offender. The violation shall be prosecuted by the
City Attorney’s office. If found guilty of a violation of division (A)
or if the offender pleads guilty, the court shall impose a fine of no
less than $1,000, 12 months summary probation and 30 calendar days
suspended jail sentence. The court may also impose other penalties as it
deems fit, including but not limited to, the requirement the defendant
use anti-barking devices on the animal.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-1-4 STRAYS; HOUSING.

   Any person who keeps or causes to be kept any horses, mules, cattle,
burros, goats, sheep, other livestock or poultry, shall keep such
animals in a pen or similar enclosure to prevent their roaming at large.
Any such livestock or poultry running at large shall be impounded as
provided in this chapter. It is unlawful to cause or allow any stable or
place where any animal is or may be kept to become unclean or
unwholesome.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, §§ 6-9-1 and 6-9-2

§ 6-1-5 SWINE PROHIBITED.

   It is unlawful to keep any live swine or pigs within the corporate
limits of the city, except as provided by A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Article 6-7,
and registered, purebred, miniature, Vietnamese, potbellied pigs or
other similar registered, purebred, miniature, potbellied pigs. Any
miniature pigs shall be subject to all other conditions and requirements
as set forth in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Article 6-7.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, §§ 6-9-1 and 6-9-2

§ 6-1-6 PET SHOPS.

   (A)   No sick or injured animal shall be maintained, held or offered
for sale on the premises of pet shops.

   (B)   Animals that are unweaned, under the age of 8 weeks, or so
young that their sale would be injurious to them, shall not be sold,
offered for sale nor given away.

   (C)   Every person maintaining a pet shop shall cause a notice to be
framed and enclosed under glass, and to be posted in such a location as
to be legible at all times from the outside, containing; the name,
address and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in case of
emergency at any time who will, at the request of any Enforcement
Officer or other designated authority, respond to the location to assist
in any emergency or other situation in which such person’s presence is
indispensable.

   (D)   Dogs and cats kept in pet shops shall be caged so that each
animal is afforded no less than 20 square feet in area per each dog or
cat. Each dog or cat over 3 months of age shall be kept in individual
cages.

   (E)   Premises where animals and birds are kept shall be ventilated
to the external air and adequately lighted to provide visibility. The
premises shall be properly plumbed and have septic tanks or
sewer-connected sinks, and shall have adequate supply of water readily
accessible to the portions of the premises in which the animals or birds
are kept. Cages shall be constructed and designed so that their parts
are easily cleaned. Floors shall be concrete, tile or similar non-porous
material.

   (F)   The premises, implements, cages, yards, runs and appurtenances
shall be kept clean, sanitary, free of animal and bird parasites,
droppings or other health hazards, and shall be cleaned and disinfected
at least once daily. Flies shall be controlled.

   (G)    No portion of a pet shop shall be used for human habitation,
nor shall food for human consumption be prepared or served in the same
room in which animals or birds are kept.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-1-7 COMMERCIAL DOG KENNEL PERMITS.

   (A)   Any person who owns, maintains or harbors any dogs over 3
months of age for trade, business, profit or gain must obtain a
commercial dog kennel permit.

   (B)   The commercial dog kennel permit shall be valid for 12 months
and will expire on the first anniversary of the permit. A renewal is
required within 30 calendar days from the date of expiration, otherwise
the matter will be considered delinquent, and a late fee, as established
in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Article 4-3, shall be charged. Each subsequent
permit that is issued will be valid for 1 year and will expire on the
respective anniversary date. The fee is established in A.J.C.C., Vol. I,
Article 4-3. No commercial dog kennel permit fee shall be prorated or
refunded, nor shall the permit be transferable.

   (C)   All zoning requirements established by the city for commercial
business shall be met before a commercial dog kennel permit can be
issued. The owner/manager of any commercial dog kennel shall obtain and
have on display a valid city license as required by A.J.C.C., Vol. I,
Chapter 8, Business, Article 8-1, General Business and Licensing
Provisions.

   (D)   It shall be the duty of the owner of the kennel to pay the
applicable kennel fee on or before the date of establishing a kennel in
the city. The kennel fee shall be paid to the Animal Control Division of
the Police Department.

   (E)   The permittee shall operate the kennel so as to eliminate
excessive or untimely noise from animals and offensive odors from the
kennel. The kennel and grounds shall be maintained in a sanitary
condition.

   (F)   The permittee shall retain the name, address and telephone
number of the owner of each boarded dog, and the license number of each
dog. This register must be exhibited to any Enforcement Officer upon
demand. The permittee shall also have on file proof of rabies
vaccination for each dog housed on the premises.

   (G)   The permittee shall retain the name and address of each person
selling, trading or giving any dog to the kennel.

   (H)   The permittee shall provide an isolation ward for sick or
injured dogs, so as not to endanger the health of other dogs or cause
exposure to further injury.

   (I)   The permittee shall notify the owner of a boarded dog when it
refuses to eat or drink, or when it is injured or becomes weak or ill.

   (J)   Any violations of this chapter and Vol. I, Chapter 8, shall be
cause to revoke any commercial dog kennel permit. The permit may be
revoked by the Public Safety Director after notice and hearing. The
notice, hearing and appeal procedures shall be handled in the manner set
forth below in § 6-1-7(L).

   (K)   The Animal Control Division shall, within 30 calendar days
before the annual renewal date for the commercial dog kennel permit,
inspect the premises to confirm compliance with provisions of this
chapter. In no event shall a renewal be issued unless the inspection is
made and all non-compliant matters are corrected before the annual
renewal date. The Public Safety Director may cause random inspections
anytime it is deemed necessary from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday
through Friday, without notice to the kennel proprietor.

   (L)   Notice, hearing and appeal procedure:

      (1)   To suspend or revoke a permit, the Animal Control Division
shall deliver or mail by certified mail to the business address as shown
by the permit application, a written notice that the permit is suspended
or revoked. The reason for the suspension or revocation shall be set
forth in the notice. The notice shall also contain the permittee’s
rights and procedures to appeal the suspension or revocation. A
suspended or revoked permit shall be surrendered to the Animal Control
Division on demand.

      (2)   The Animal Control Division shall grant on demand to any
permittee whose permit has been revoked or suspended a full hearing on
the merits of the suspension or revocation. Appeal of the Animal Control
Division’s action to a hearing officer appointed by the Public Safety
Director, pursuant to division (L)(3) of this section, shall not be had
prior to the hearing. Demand for hearing shall be made within 10 working
days of receipt of the Animal Control Division’s notice of suspension or
revocation, and failure to demand a hearing within that time will
constitute a full waiver. After considering evidence presented at the
hearing, the Animal Control Division shall make a decision to uphold or
repeal the permit suspension or revocation; and shall deliver or mail by
certified mail, to the business address as shown on the permit
application, the results of the decision.

      (3)   Any person aggrieved by the Animal Control Division’s
decision pursuant to division (L)(2) of this section shall have the
right of appeal to the designated hearing officer. The appeal shall be
filed with the Public Safety Director within 14 working days after
receipt of the Animal Control Division’s decision. The appeal shall
contain a written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the
appeal. The hearing officer shall set a time and place for a hearing on
the appeal, and notice of the hearing shall be given to the applicant in
the same manner as provided for notice of hearing on revocation. The
decision and order of the hearing officer shall be final and conclusive,
except any person aggrieved may pursue any proper judicial proceedings
under state law.

      (4)   No person may reapply for any permit after denial,
revocation or non-renewal of the permit unless the cause for the denial,
revocation or non-renewal has been removed or corrected.

   (M)   A commercial dog kennel permit shall not be issued or renewed
to any person who has been convicted of a violation of A.R.S. §§ 13-2910
(cruelty to animals) or 13-2910.01 (dog fighting), or any other state,
county, or municipal animal welfare law, except civil violations of
leash laws.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-1-8 PERSONAL DOG KENNEL PERMITS.

   (A)   Personal dog kennel permits.

      (1)   Class 1 permit. A Class 1 permit for a personal dog kennel
shall be required for any person who owns, maintains or harbors from 4
to 5 dogs over 3 months of age.

      (2)   Class 2 permit. A Class 2 permit for a personal dog kennel
shall be required for any person who owns, maintains or harbors from 6
to 8 dogs over 3 months of age.

      (3)   Any person who owns, maintains or harbors 3 or less dogs
over 3 months of age is not required to obtain a personal dog kennel
permit.

      (4)   The provisions of Code of Federal Regulations, Title 9,
Volume I, § 3.6, relating to animal floor space, shall be considered
when granting the above-noted permits.

      (5)   The permit provisions do not apply to emergency situations
where a person or nonprofit entity boards dogs, subject to the following
conditions:

         (a)   The person boarding dogs will submit a sworn and
notarized statement that they are caring for the dogs for a maximum of
30 calendar days per dog.

         (b)   This statement shall contain the name, address and phone
number of the individual or organization who provided the dog to the
boarder.

         (c)   No more than 2 dogs will be permitted under this
emergency exception.

         (d)   The boarder will provide the Animal Control Division with
the final disposition of the animal within the 30-calendar-day period
for each dog noted on the original statement, as well as the name and
contact information of the adopting party. Extensions of the 30-day time
limit may be permitted at the discretion of the Animal Control Division,
but in no event shall the extension exceed 6 months per animal.

         (e)   The goal of this emergency exception is to protect the
animals that are in foster care rather than to punish law-abiding pet
owners.

      (6)   Any service animal, as defined under applicable Arizona law,
including but not limited to, A.R.S. §§ 9-500.32, 11-1024, and 13-2910,
is not to be counted toward the maximum allowed dogs under this section,
and no license fees shall be applied for these animals pursuant to
A.R.S. § 9-500.32, nor any search and rescue dog as set forth in A.R.S.
§ 9-500.32.

   (B)   Each personal dog kennel permit shall be valid for 12
consecutive months and expire on the first anniversary of the permit,
and shall become delinquent 30 calendar days from the date of
expiration. Each subsequent permit issued will be valid for a 1-year
period and expire on the respective anniversary date. The fee is
established in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Article 4-3. A late fee shall be
charged on all delinquent personal dog kennel permits, as established by
A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Article 4-3. No personal dog kennel permit shall be
prorated or refunded, nor shall the permit be transferable.

   (C)   All dogs covered by a personal dog kennel permit shall be
vaccinated, licensed and spayed or neutered. A dog owner may apply for a
waiver of the spay or neuter requirement as long as they obtain a
veterinarian’s written opinion that such surgery would endanger the
safety of the dog, or a certification from a veterinarian determining
that the other dogs owned by the owner or those maintained or harbored
at the same address are spayed and/or neutered. At the discretion of the
Animal Control Division and upon documented proof, the spaying and
neutering requirement shall not apply to American Kennel Club or
Canadian Kennel Club dogs.

   (D)   At no time shall dogs covered under this section be used for
trade, business, profit or gain. There shall be no boarding or breeding
of dogs covered by this permit. All dogs shall be the exclusive property
of the permittee.

   (E)   The permittee shall operate the personal dog kennel so as to
eliminate excessive or untimely noise from animals and offensive odors
from the kennel. The kennel and grounds shall be maintained in a
sanitary condition. The property covered by this permit shall be
surrounded by a fence of sufficient height and strength to confine the
dogs. Sufficient height and strength will be determined by an
Enforcement Officer, based on the size of the dog being confined.

   (F)   Any violations of this chapter and A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Chapter 8
shall be cause to revoke any commercial dog kennel permit. The permit
may be revoked by the Public Safety Department Director after notice and
hearing. The notice, hearing and appeal procedures shall be handled in
the same manner set forth below in § 6-1-8(G).

   (G)   Notice, hearing and appeal procedure:

      (1)   To suspend or revoke a permit, the Animal Control Division
shall deliver or mail by certified mail, to the business address as
shown by the permit application, a written notice that the permit is
suspended or revoked. The reason for the suspension or revocation shall
be set forth in the notice. The notice shall also contain the
permittee’s rights and the procedures to appeal the suspension or
revocation. A suspended or revoked permit shall be surrendered to the
Animal Control Division on demand.

      (2)   The Animal Control Division shall grant on demand to any
permittee whose permit has been revoked or suspended a full hearing on
the merits of the suspension or revocation. Appeal of the Animal Control
Division’s action to a hearing officer appointed by the Public Safety
Director, pursuant to division (G)(3) of this section, shall not be had
prior to the hearing. Demand for hearing shall be made within 10 working
days of receipt of the Animal Control Division’s notice of suspension or
revocation, and failure to demand a hearing within that time will
constitute a full waiver. After considering evidence presented at the
hearing, the Animal Control Division shall make a decision to uphold or
repeal the permit suspension or revocation; and shall deliver or mail by
certified mail, to the business address as shown on the permit
application, the results of the decision.

      (3)   Any person aggrieved by the Animal Control Division’s
decision pursuant to division (G)(2) of this section shall have the
right of appeal to the designated hearing officer. The appeal shall be
filed with the Public Safety Director within 14 working days after
receipt of the Animal Control Division’s decision. The appeal shall
contain a written statement fully setting forth the grounds for the
appeal. The hearing officer shall set a time and place for a hearing on
the appeal, and notice of the hearing shall be given to the applicant in
the same manner as provided for notice of hearing on revocation. The
decision and order of the hearing officer shall be final and conclusive,
except any person aggrieved may pursue any proper judicial proceedings
under state law.

      (4)   No person may reapply for any permit after denial,
revocation or non-renewal of the permit unless the cause for the denial,
revocation or non-renewal has been removed or corrected.

   (H)   Any dogs over the allotted number allowed will be surrendered,
either to the Animal Control Division or to new homes found by the
owner, within a 36-hour period after the discovery of the excess number
of dogs by Enforcement Officers. The holder of a personal dog kennel
permit shall not be bound by the same requirements governing a
commercial dog kennel permit.

   (I)   The Animal Control Division shall, within 30 calendar days
before the annual renewal date for the personal dog kennel permit,
inspect the premises to confirm compliance with provisions of this
chapter. In no event shall a renewal be issued unless the inspection is
made and all non-compliant matters are corrected before the annual
renewal date.

   (J)   A personal dog kennel permit shall not be issued to any person
who has been convicted of a violation of A.R.S. §§ 13-2910 (cruelty to
animals) or 13-2910.01 (dog fighting), or any other state, county, or
municipal animal welfare law, except civil violations of leash laws.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-1-9 VETERINARY HOSPITALS.

   (A)   The provisions of A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 6-1-6, Pet Shops,
divisions (C) through (G), shall apply to veterinary hospitals, as
defined in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 6-1-1. In addition, caged areas shall
contain no less than 20 square feet per any dog or cat boarded.

   (B)   Veterinary hospitals and clinics shall keep records for each
animal or bird treated, including an accurate description of the animal
or bird, the treatment given, including diagnosis, if possible,
vaccinations and dates of admission and discharge. These records shall
be made available for inspection by an Enforcement Officer.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-1-10 WILD ANIMALS.

   (A)   No person shall harbor, maintain or control a wild, dangerous
or undomesticated animal, as defined in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 6-1-1,
within the city limits.

   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any keeping
of such wild animals in a bona fide, licensed, veterinary hospital for
treatment, or in a bona fide educational institution, circus, zoo or
other event for education or entertainment, which has obtained a special
permit from the Animal Control Division. The Animal Control Division
shall issue a special permit if it determines:

      (1)   That the animal is at all times kept or maintained in a safe
manner, and that it is at all times confined securely so that the
keeping of the animal will not constitute a danger to human life or the
property of others;

      (2)   That adequate safeguards are made to prevent unauthorized
access to the animal by members of the public;

      (3)   That the health or well-being of the animal is not in any
way endangered by the manner of keeping or confinement;

      (4)   That the keeping of the animal does not constitute a
nuisance, as defined in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 6-1-3, pertaining to noisy
animals, and is in compliance with all city zoning and business
licensing and regulations;

      (5)   That the keeping of the animal will not create or cause
offensive odors or constitute a danger to public health;

      (6)   That the quarters in which the animal is kept or confined
are adequately lighted and ventilated, and are so constructed that they
may be kept in a clean and sanitary condition;

      (7)   That the applicant for the special permit prove their
ability to respond in damages to and including the amount of $1,000,000
per occurrence, $2,000,000 aggregate, for bodily injury to or death of
any person or persons, or for damage to property owned by any other
person that may result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance or the
animal. Proof of liability to respond in damages may be given by filing
with the City Attorney a certificate of insurance, stating that the
applicant is, at the time of application, and will be during the period
of the special permit, insured against liability to respond in such
damages, or by posting with the City Attorney a surety bond conditioned
upon the payment of such damages during the period of such special
permit. The certificate of insurance or bond shall provide that no
cancellation of the insurance or bond will be made unless 30 calendar
days’ written notice is first given to the City Attorney. The applicant
shall also cause such certificate of insurance to state the “City of
Apache Junction, its elected officials, employees and agents” as
additional insured parties, a copy of which must be sent to the office
of the City Attorney at least 60 days prior to such special event.

   (C)   Any violation of this chapter shall be cause to revoke the
special permit. The permit may be revoked by the Public Safety
Department Director after notice and hearing. The notice, hearing and
appeal procedures shall be governed by the provisions set forth below in
§ 6-1-10(C).

   (D)   Notice, hearing and appeal procedure:

      (1)   To suspend or revoke a permit, the Animal Control Division
shall deliver or mail by certified mail, to the business address as
shown by the permit application, a written notice that such permit is
suspended or revoked. The reason for such suspension or revocation shall
be set forth in the notice. The notice shall also contain the
permittee’s rights and procedures to appeal such suspension or
revocation. A suspended or revoked permit shall be surrendered to the
Animal Control Division on demand.

      (2)   The Animal Control Division shall grant on demand to any
permittee whose permit has been revoked or suspended a full hearing on
the merits of the suspension or revocation. Appeal of the Animal Control
Division’s action to a hearing officer appointed by the Public Safety
Director, pursuant to division (D)(3) of this section, shall not be had
prior to the hearing. Demand for hearing shall be made within 10 working
days of receipt of the Animal Control Division’s notice of suspension or
revocation, and failure to demand a hearing within that time will
constitute a full waiver. After considering evidence presented at the
hearing, the Animal Control Division shall make a decision to uphold or
repeal the permit suspension or revocation; and shall deliver or mail by
certified mail, to the business address as shown on the permit
application, the results of the decision.

      (3)   Any person aggrieved by the Animal Control Division’s
decision pursuant to division (D)(2) of this section shall have the
right of appeal to the designated hearing officer. The appeal shall be
filed with the Public Safety Director within 14 working days after
receipt of the Animal Control Division’s decision. The appeal shall
contain a written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the
appeal. The hearing officer shall set a time and place for a hearing on
the appeal, and notice of the hearing shall be given to the applicant in
the same manner as provided for notice of hearing on revocation. The
decision and order of the hearing officer shall be final and conclusive,
except any person aggrieved may pursue any proper judicial proceedings
under state law.

      (4)   No person may reapply for any permit after denial,
revocation or non-renewal of the permit unless the cause for the denial,
revocation or non-renewal has been removed or corrected.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-1-11 CRUELTY AND NEGLECT.

   (A)   Cruelty. It is unlawful for any person to overdrive, overload,
overwork, torture, torment, mutilate or unlawfully kill an animal, or to
cause or procure an animal to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, beaten, mutilated or
killed, and whomever, having charge or custody of an animal as owner or
otherwise, inflicts cruelty upon it, drives or works it when unfit for
labor, abandons it, or knowingly and willfully authorizes or permits it
to be subjected to torture, suffering or cruelty of any kind.

   (B)   Neglect. Animals under human custody or control shall be housed
in healthy environments and shall be provided with proper food, water,
shelter, medical care and ventilation. Any person owning or having care,
custody or control of any animal shall provide that:

      (1)   The animal receives on a daily basis, food that is free from
contamination and is of sufficient quantity and nutritious value to
maintain the animal in good condition.

      (2)   Potable water is accessible to the animal at all times,
either free flowing or in a clean receptacle. For purposes of this
division, CLEAN means not unhealthy to an animal.

      (3)   Except for livestock, all animals shall have convenient
access to natural or artificial shelter throughout the year. Any
artificial shelter shall be structurally sound and maintained in good
repair to protect the animal from injury and from the elements, and of
sufficient size to permit the animal to enter, stand, turn around and
lie down in a natural manner. Any shelter that does not protect the
animal from temperature extremes or precipitation, or that does not
provide adequate ventilation does not comply with this section. Any
shelter, all bedding and any spaces accessible to the animal, shall be
maintained in a manner that minimizes the risk of the animal contracting
disease, being injured, or becoming infested with parasites.

      (4)   The animal shall receive care and medical attention for
injuries, parasites and diseases sufficient to maintain the animal in
good health and minimize suffering, or shall be humanely euthanized to
prevent protracted suffering and pain to the animal.

      (5)   If the animal is on a tie out, consisting of a chain, leash,
wire, cable or similar restraint, it shall be so located as to keep the
animal exclusively on the secured premises. Tie outs shall be so located
that the animal cannot become entangled with other objects. Collars used
to attach an animal to a tie out shall not be of a choke-type. The tie
out shall not weigh more than 1/8 of the animal’s total body weight, and
shall not be shorter than 3 times the length of animal, measuring from
the tip of the nose to the end of the tail.

   (C)   Abandonment. It is unlawful for a person to drop off or leave
an animal on a street, road, highway, in a public place or on private
property without food, water or shelter.

   (D)   Violations. Any violation of divisions (A), (B) or (C) shall be
a class 1 misdemeanor.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

ARTICLE 6-2: IMPOUNDING GENERALLY

Section

   6-2-1   Scope of article

   6-2-2   Impounding of animals at large

   6-2-3   Notice to owners of impoundment

   6-2-4   Conditions and duration of impoundment

   6-2-5   Redemption of impounded animals

   6-2-6   Unclaimed impounded animals

   6-2-7   Impeding Enforcement Officer

   6-2-8   Biting animals; quarantine

§ 6-2-1 SCOPE OF ARTICLE.

   The provisions of this article shall apply to the impoundment of all
animals.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-2-2 IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS AT LARGE.

   It shall be the duty of the Enforcement Officer to impound all
animals found at large, or not under the charge, care or control of some
person in the street, alleys or other public places, or on vacant or
unenclosed lots in the city. The Enforcement Officer shall have the
right to enter upon private property when it becomes necessary to do so
in order to apprehend any animal that has been roaming at large.
Entrance upon private property shall be in reasonable pursuit of the
animal(s), and shall not include entry into a domicile unless it is at
the invitation of the occupant or by way of search warrant, or exigent
circumstances exist justifying a warrantless entry.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-2-3 NOTICE TO OWNERS OF IMPOUNDMENT.

   If the owner of any impounded animal shall be known to the
Enforcement Officer and shall reside or have a known place of business
in the city, the Enforcement Officer shall notify the owner of the
animal personally, by door-hanger notice, or by letter through the post
office within 24 hours after the animal has been impounded. The notice
shall contain a description of the animal and shall state that, unless
reclaimed, it will be adopted out or destroyed after it is left
unclaimed for 3 consecutive business days. If the owner of any impounded
animal is not known to the Enforcement Officer or does not reside or
have a known place of business in the city, then no notice needs to be
sent. If an animal is suspected of having been abandoned, the
Enforcement Officer will leave a 24-hour notice at the location where
the animal is last observed, advising any interested person should
contact the Animal Control Division or the animal will be removed from
the property after such time. In the case where an owner has been
arrested and any animals on premises have been impounded due to an
absence of a qualified caretaker at the owner’s premises, the
Enforcement Officer shall make reasonable efforts to notify the owner of
the impoundment. The notice shall allow the owner to claim the impounded
animal through the efforts of another person as made known to the
Enforcement Officer in writing. In such case, in order to obtain release
of the animal, all fees referenced in § 6-2-5 shall be paid to the
Enforcement Officer by the person with the authority to receive the
animal. If the Enforcement Officer is not notified by the owner that an
authorized person may pick up the animal within 10 calendar days from
delivery of the required notice to the incarcerated owner, the animal is
deemed “abandoned” and shall be handled pursuant to § 6-2-6

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-2-4 CONDITIONS AND DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.

   The Enforcement Officer shall keep all captured and impounded animals
in a safe, convenient and comfortable place, and shall feed them as
necessary and treat them in a humane manner during the time they are
impounded. The duration of impoundment shall not be less than 3
consecutive business days, unless sooner claimed by the owner.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-2-5 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.

   Unless the animal is quarantined at the animal control facility
pursuant to § 6-2-8, if the owner of any animal shall, within 3
consecutive business days after it has been captured and impounded,
apply to the Enforcement Officer and pay the fees and charges authorized
under this chapter, as well as make current all licensing and
vaccination requirements and fees, the Animal Control Division must make
the animal available for return to the owner at the Animal Control
Division office.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-2-6 UNCLAIMED IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.

   If a dog or cat is not reclaimed within the impound period noted in §
6-2-3 above, the Animal Control Division may place it up for sale,
adoption or rescue, or dispose of it in a humane manner. The Animal
Control Division may destroy impounded, sick or injured animals whenever
it is necessary, at any time, to prevent them from suffering, to prevent
the spread of disease, or for the safety and welfare of the public and
city employees.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-2-7 IMPEDING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.

   It is unlawful for any person to, in any manner: a) provide false or
incomplete information to an Enforcement Officer concerning the
whereabouts, ownership, license status, or current rabies vaccination of
any animal; b) interfere, intervene, impede, prevent, obstruct or
intimidate an Enforcement Officer in the discharge of his or her duties
in locating, capturing or attempting to capture and impound any and all
animals that shall be his or her duty to impound under the provisions of
this chapter; or c) rescue or attempt to rescue any animal so captured,
or to release any animal so impounded.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 6-9-2

§ 6-2-8 BITING ANIMALS; QUARANTINE.

   Whenever any animal bites a person, the person so bitten and the
owner of the animal shall immediately notify the Enforcement Officer,
who shall quarantine the animal, order the animal held on the owner’s
premises if the animal meets the home quarantine guidelines, and is
current on rabies vaccinations and on licensing, or shall have it
impounded for at least 10 calendar days from the date of the bite, or a
longer period if necessary for a complete examination. If it is
determined that the animal is infected with rabies or other dangerous,
contagious and infectious disease, it shall be the duty of the
Enforcement Officer to destroy the animal in a humane manner. If the
animal is surrendered by the owner to the Animal Control Division and
the animal is acting aggressively or unpredictably, the animal will be
humanely euthanized and its head will be forwarded to the Arizona
Department of Health Services for rabies testing. If the animal dies
during the period of quarantine or impoundment, its head shall be
forwarded to the Arizona Department of Health Services for examination.
It is unlawful for a person either to refuse surrender of the animal for
quarantine, or to fail to abide by the home-quarantine provisions of
this section. If at the end of the quarantine period, it is determined
to not be infected with rabies or other dangerous, contagious or
infectious diseases, the animal shall be released to its owner.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

ARTICLE 6-3: DOGS

Section

   6-3-1   Licenses and tags generally

   6-3-2   Rabies vaccination required

   6-3-3   Running at large

   6-3-4   Impoundment; microchipping

   6-3-5   Hearing on disposition of abused and vicious animals

   6-3-6   Vicious dogs

   6-3-7   Owner liability

   6-3-8   Dogs killing animals, livestock or fowl

   6-3-9   Dog fecal matter

§ 6-3-1 LICENSES AND TAGS GENERALLY.

   (A)   License fees, as established in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Article 4-3,
shall be paid for each dog 3 months of age and older that is kept,
possessed, harbored or maintained within the boundaries of the city for
at least 30 days of each calendar year. The amount of fees may
differentiate between sterilized and unsterilized dogs.

   (B)   Durable dog tags shall be provided by the city. Each dog
licensed under the terms of this article shall receive, at the time of
licensing, such a tag on which shall be inscribed the name of the city,
the number of the license and the year of issue. All dog tags shall
expire 1 year from the date of issuance. The tag shall be attached to a
collar or harness that shall be worn by the dog while on public premises
at all times, except as otherwise provided in this article. Whenever a
dog tag is lost, a duplicate shall be issued upon application by the
owner and a replacement fee, as established in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Article
4-3, shall be charged.

   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to counterfeit or attempt to
counterfeit an official license tag, or to remove the tag from any dog
for the purpose of willful and malicious mischief, or to place a license
tag upon a dog unless the tag was issued to that dog.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, §§ 6-9-1 and 6-9-2

§ 6-3-2 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.

   (A)   Before a license is issued for any dog, the owner must present
a rabies vaccination certificate signed by a veterinarian, stating the
owner’s name and address, and giving the dog’s description, date of
vaccination and type, manufacturer and serial number of the vaccine, and
the date re-vaccination is due. A duplicate of each rabies vaccination
certificate issued shall be transmitted to the Enforcement Officer on or
before the tenth day of the month following the month in which the dog
was vaccinated. No dog shall be licensed unless it is vaccinated in
accordance with the provisions of this article.

   (B)   A dog vaccinated in any other place prior to entry into the
city may be licensed in the city, provided that, at the time of
licensing, the owner of the dog presents a vaccination certificate,
signed by a veterinarian licensed to practice in that place or a
veterinarian employed by a governmental agency in that place, stating
the owner’s name and address, and giving the dog’s description, date of
vaccination and type, manufacturer and serial number of the vaccine
used. The vaccination must be in conformity with the provisions of this
article.

   (C)   If a dog is impounded and found to be unvaccinated, the
Enforcement Officer will cause the dog to be vaccinated at the pound at
a cost to be borne by the owner. The vaccination shall be performed by
Animal Control personnel or other qualified personnel to whom Animal
Control personnel have delegated such duty, and who shall then issue a
certificate of vaccination. The vaccinated animal shall not be released
until such time as all vaccination, care and impound fees are paid in
full.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-3-3 RUNNING AT LARGE.

   (A)   No person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or maintaining
any dog shall allow it to be at large, as defined in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, §
6-1-1. However, notwithstanding such limitations, a dog is deemed to be
not at large under the following circumstances:

      (1)   While it is restrained by a leash, chain, rope or cord of
not more than 6 feet in length, and of sufficient strength to control
action of the dog.

      (2)   While it is used for control of livestock, while being used
or trained for hunting, while being exhibited or trained at a kennel
club event, or while engaged in races approved by the Arizona Racing
Commission.

      (3)   While it is actively engaged in dog obedience training,
accompanied by and under the control of the owner or trainer, provided
that the person training the dog has in their possession a dog leash of
not more than 6 feet in length, and of sufficient strength to control
the dog, and further, the dog is actually enrolled in or has graduated
from a dog obedience training school that has been approved by an
Enforcement Officer.

   (B)   The Enforcement Officer shall apprehend and/or impound any dog
running at large. The Enforcement Officer will enter private property
curtilage (not the interior of a residence without permission of an
owner or a search warrant) to apprehend any dog that has been running at
large. This entry shall be in a reasonable pursuit, and shall not
include entry into a secured enclosure that confines a dog, except at
the invitation of the occupant or owner.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, §§ 6-9-1 and 6-9-2

§ 6-3-4 IMPOUNDMENT; MICROCHIPPING.

   (A)   If a dog is impounded for any reason and is not already
microchipped, the Animal Control Division is hereby authorized to cause
it to be microchipped at a cost to be borne by the owner. The
microchipping shall be performed by Animal Control Division personnel or
other qualified personnel that have been delegated such duty.

   (B)   Impoundment fees, together with fees for care and feeding, as
established in Vol. I, Article 4-3, shall be assessed for the
impoundment of dogs.

   (C)   The provisions of Article 6-2, Impounding Generally, shall also
apply for impounding dogs.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-3-5 HEARING ON DISPOSITION OF ABUSED AND VICIOUS ANIMALS.

   An Enforcement Officer who has impounded an animal pursuant to this
article, on a showing of probable cause that the animal has been cruelly
mistreated or cruelly neglected, or that the animal is vicious or may be
a danger to the safety of any person or other animal, may request,
through the City Attorney’s office, a disposition hearing before the
city magistrate to determine whether the animal has suffered cruel
mistreatment or cruel neglect as defined in A.R.S. § 13-2910, or is
vicious as defined in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 6-1-1. The court shall
schedule the hearing within 15 business days after the request has been
filed. The animal will be held by the Animal Control Division or its
designee until the matter has been fully adjudicated by the municipal
court, and all appellate time periods have expired.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-3-6 VICIOUS DOGS.

   It is unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, allow to run at large,
or otherwise have under his or her control any vicious dog, or direct or
control of any vicious dog. This section shall not apply to zoos, wild
animal parks or animal shelters. Vicious dogs may be impounded if they
are found at large and may be kept impounded until there is a final
disposition of any criminal complaint or payment in full of all
civilsanctions imposed arising from the alleged violation of this
section, provided that the criminal or civil complaint is filed within
30 days of the alleged violation date. Also, in the judgment of the
Enforcement Officer, any dog at large that is dangerous or vicious, and
poses an immediate threat to human safety that cannot be safely
impounded, may be immediately disposed of in a humane manner.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, §§ 6-9-1 and 6-9-2

§ 6-3-7 OWNER LIABILITY.

   (A)   Injury to any person or animal or damage to any property, by an
animal while at large or under the owner’s control, shall be the full
responsibility of the animal owner or person responsible for the animal
when such damages were inflicted.

   (B)   The owner of an animal that bites a person who is in or on a
public place or lawfully in or on a private place, including the
property of the owner of the animal, is liable for damages suffered by
the person bitten, regardless of the former viciousness of the animal or
the owner’s previous knowledge of its viciousness.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-3-8 DOGS KILLING ANIMALS, LIVESTOCK OR FOWL.

   The provisions of A.R.S. § 3-1311 govern situations where dogs kill,
wound or chase livestock, except that the same provisions also apply
where dogs kill, wound or chase any animal or fowl.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-3-9 DOG FECAL MATTER.

   Any person owning, possessing, harboring or having the care, charge,
control or custody of any dog shall immediately remove and thereafter
dispose of any fecal matter deposited by the dog on public or private
property, unless the property owner has given prior approval to use the
property for this purpose.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

ARTICLE 6-4: CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENT

Section

   6-4-1   Intergovernmental agreements

§ 6-4-1 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS.

   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
Council may contract with other agencies to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

ARTICLE 6-5: CONFINED ANIMALS

Section

   6-5-1   Animals confined in motor vehicles or other places of
endangerment

   6-5-2   Impoundment of animals found in motor vehicles

   6-5-3   Exceptions

§ 6-5-1 ANIMALS CONFINED IN MOTOR VEHICLES OR OTHER PLACES OF
ENDANGERMENT.

   No person having charge or custody of an animal, as owner or
otherwise, shall place or confine it, or allow it to be placed or
confined or to remain, in a motor vehicle or in such a location under
such conditions or for such a period of time as may endanger its health
or well-being due to heat or cold, lack of food, drink, adequate
ventilation or such other circumstances as may reasonably be expected to
cause suffering, disability or death.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, §§ 6-9-1 and 6-9-2

§ 6-5-2 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS FOUND IN MOTOR VEHICLES.

   An Enforcement Officer who finds an animal in a motor vehicle in
violation of this article may force entry into the motor vehicle if
necessary to remove the animal. The Enforcement Officer removing the
animal shall take the animal to the Animal Control Division or other
place of safekeeping and shall, in the event the person having custody
cannot be otherwise contacted, leave in a prominent place in the motor
vehicle a written notice bearing the Enforcement Officer’s name, the
office and address where the animal may be claimed by the owner thereof.
The animal will be surrendered to the owner if the owner claims it
within 3 business days from the time the animal was removed from the
motor vehicle, and shall pay all reasonable charges that have accrued
for its maintenance. The owner must also at the time of return of the
animal make current all licensing and vaccinations and pay all
associated fines incurred for the city’s care of the animal.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, §§ 6-9-1 and 6-9-2

§ 6-5-3 EXCEPTIONS.

   Nothing in this article shall be deemed to prohibit the
transportation of horses, cattle, sheep, poultry or other agricultural
livestock in trailers or other vehicles designed and constructed for
such purpose.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

ARTICLE 6-6: KEEPING OF ANIMALS

Section

   6-6-1   Maintenance of property

   6-6-2   Sanitary regulations

   6-6-3   Enforcement

§ 6-6-1 MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY.

   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall be permitted to keep or
harbor any animal in such a manner that the housing conditions shall
cause insect or rodent breeding, obnoxious or offensive odors or those
that constitute a public nuisance.

   (B)   All corrals, barns, enclosures or other structures used for the
purpose of housing, keeping or caring for any animal or animals shall be
structurally sound so as to contain them safely and securely.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, §§ 6-9-1 and 6-9-2

§ 6-6-2 SANITARY REGULATIONS.

   (A)   Manure shall be removed from any yard, corral, barn, enclosure
or any other structure used for the purpose of housing, keeping or
caring for an animal or livestock as often as necessary to maintain a
sanitary premise that will not cause a hazard to the health of an animal
or livestock. However, manure may be composted or distributed evenly in
a thin layer in turnouts or round pens for purposes of dust control.

   (B)   Drinking troughs shall contain clean and fresh water and shall
be provided with adequateoverflow drainage, and such drainage shall be
controlled so as to prohibit any flow onto adjoining properties or the
breeding of mosquitoes or other noxious insects. Livestock must have
access to drinking water at all times.

   (C)   Manure shall not be accumulated in any place or in any manner
whereby it may affect a source of drinking water or groundwater.

   (D)   Spillage and leftovers from animal feedings shall be disposed
of in such a manner that insect or rodent breeding or obnoxious odors do
not exist.

   (E)   Manure shall be located on the property on which the animals or
livestock generating the manure are kept or harbored so as to prevent
the manure from entering onto an adjoining property. Reasonable
containment procedures shall take into consideration acts of nature,
such as rainfall and wind, as well as natural drainage courses and
sloping terrain.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-6-3 ENFORCEMENT.

   All animals shall be kept or harbored with adequate food, water and
care in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. It shall be the
duty of the Enforcement Officer to impound any animals maintained in
conditions in violation of this code, in accordance with the provisions
contained in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Article 6-2.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

ARTICLE 6-7: POTBELLIED PIGS

Section

   6-7-1   Running at large

   6-7-2   Impoundment

   6-7-3   Biting pigs

   6-7-4   Owner liability

   6-7-5   Keeping of potbellied pigs

   6-7-6   Commercial breeding prohibited

§ 6-7-1 RUNNING AT LARGE.

   (A)   No person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or maintaining
any potbellied pig shall allow such potbellied pig to be at large, as
defined in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 6-1-1, subject to the permission of the
Public Safety Director pursuant to this article.

   (B)   The Enforcement Officer shall apprehend and impound any
potbellied pig running at large.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, §§ 6-9-1 and 6-9-2

§ 6-7-2 IMPOUNDMENT.

   (A)   Impoundment regulations as contained in A.J.C.C., Vol. I,
Article 6-2, except those applied to livestock, shall apply to
potbellied pigs.

   (B)   Impoundment fees, together with fees for care and feeding, as
established in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Article 4-3, shall be assessed for the
impoundment of potbellied pigs.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-7-3 BITING PIGS.

   In situations where it is alleged a potbellied pig has bitten a
person or animal, the Enforcement Officer shall report the incident to
the Arizona Department of Agriculture, which pursuant to A.R.S. §
11-1014 and Arizona Administrative Rules R3-2-408, as amended, have
jurisdiction over potbellied-pig bites, including quarantining and
rabies testing.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-7-4 OWNER LIABILITY.

   (A)   Injury to any person or animal or damage to any property by a
potbellied pig while at large or under the owner’s control shall be the
full responsibility of the owner or person responsible for the
potbellied pig when the damages were inflicted.

   (B)   The owner of a potbellied pig that bites a person who is in or
on a public place or lawfully in or on a private place, including the
property of the owner of the potbellied pig, is liable for damages
suffered by the person bitten, regardless of the former viciousness of
the potbellied pig or the owner’s previous knowledge of its viciousness.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-7-5 KEEPING OF POTBELLIED PIGS.

   The provisions of A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Article 6-6 shall be applicable
to the keeping of potbellied pigs.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-7-6 COMMERCIAL BREEDING PROHIBITED.

   No potbellied pigs shall be kept for purposes of commercial breeding
or retail sales. Any potbellied pig permitted under this chapter shall
be kept only as a pet or as a show animal.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, §§ 6-9-1 and 6-9-2

ARTICLE 6-8: KEEPING OF SWINE FOR SPECIAL PROJECTS

Section

   6-8-1   Limitations on location and quantity

§ 6-8-1 LIMITATIONS ON LOCATION AND QUANTITY.

   The keeping of swine or pigs shall meet the requirements set forth in
A.J.C.C., Vol. II, Land Development Code, Chapter 1, Zoning Ordinance, §
1-6-17, Animal Regulations, as amended.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, §§ 6-9-1 and 6-9-2

ARTICLE 6-9: VIOLATIONS

Section

   6-9-1   Civil filings and penalties

   6-9-2   Criminal filings and penalties

§ 6-9-1 CIVIL FILINGS AND PENALTIES.

   Except as otherwise noted, any violation of this chapter shall be
handled as a civil offense, and shall be filed in the municipal court in
the same manner as civil property maintenance violations pursuant to
A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 9-1-4(D). Appeals shall be handled in the same
manner pursuant to A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 9-1-4(E). The fines noted below
are the exact fines that a judge shall impose, which shall not be
decreased, increased or exchanged for community restitution or other
penalties. The court may impose additional penalties, including court
fees, but shall not substitute such fees for the base fines referenced
as follows:

 

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------
  First violation                                                                         Fine of $250
  Second violation of same code provision occurring within 24 months of first violation   Fine of $500
  Third violation of same code provision occurring within 24 months of first violation    Fine of $750
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------

 

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 6-9-2 CRIMINAL FILINGS AND PENALTIES.

   (A)   A fourth violation of the same code provision in this chapter
occurring within 24 monthsof the first violation shall be filed in the
criminal division of the municipal court as a class 1 misdemeanor by the
City Attorney’s office by long form complaint, or the Enforcement
Officer by direct citation, which minimum fine shall be $1,000 and a
maximum fine of $2,500, a minimum probation period of 12 months and a
maximum of 36 months, a minimum jail suspended sentence of 30 days or a
maximum of 180 calendar days, and other provisions that the court has
jurisdiction to impose, such as applicable, court-imposed penalties,
assessments, an order for forfeiture and destruction of an animal, and
other court or probation fees. The court shall treat subsequent and
successive civil judgments in the same manner as prior criminal
convictions are concerned insofar as the elevated fines noted above are
to be applied. The court has no discretion to lower these penalties and
shall sentence the individual to at least the minimum sentences noted
above. However, unless otherwise set forth in this chapter, violations
of the following code provisions, whenever committed, single incident or
repetitive, shall always be handled as criminal class 1 misdemeanors
with the above-noted minimum class 1 misdemeanor penalties:

 

  -------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  6-1-3    Noise
  6-1-11   Cruelty, neglect and abandonment
  6-2-7    Impeding Enforcement Officer
  6-2-8    Biting animals; quarantine
  6-3-3    Running at large (may be pursued by the Enforcement Officer as either a civil or criminal matter, in his or her own discretion, based on previous violations and contacts with the alleged offender, and the alleged offender’s quantifiable remorsefulness and willingness or lack of willingness to mitigate and eliminate future violations)
  6-3-6    Vicious dogs
  -------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

   (B)   Notwithstanding the above code provisions, the City Attorney’s
office has the discretion to reduce a misdemeanor to a civil violation
in the interest of justice.

(Ord, 1465, passed 12-4-2018)

CHAPTER 7: BUILDINGS

      Article

         7-1.   DIVISION OF BUILDING SAFETY AND INSPECTION
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE

         7-2.   BUILDING CODE

         7-3.   ACCESSIBILITY CODE

         7-4.   RESIDENTIAL CODE

         7-5.   ELECTRICAL CODE

         7-6.   PLUMBING CODE

         7-7.   MECHANICAL CODE

         7-8.   FUEL GAS CODE

         7-9.   FIRE CODE

         7-10.   EXISTING BUILDING CODE

         7-11.   ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE

         7-12.   SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE

ARTICLE 7-1: DIVISION OF BUILDING SAFETY AND
INSPECTION ADMINISTRATIVE CODE

Section

   7-1-1   Conformity with the Apache Junction City Code, Volume II,
Land Development Code, Chapter 1 Zoning Ordinance

   7-1-2   General

   7-1-3   Applicability

   7-1-4   Administration and enforcement

   7-1-5   Construction Board of Appeals

   7-1-6   Permits

   7-1-7   Inspections

   7-1-8   Certificates

   7-1-9   Unsafe building and unsafe property

   7-1-10   Penalties

   7-1-11   Construction standards for manufactured home, mobile home,
park model, and recreational vehicle standards

   7-1-12   Standard for fireplaces, wood stoves and other solid fuel
burning devices

§ 7-1-1 CONFORMITY WITH THE APACHE JUNCTION CITY CODE, VOLUME II, LAND
DEVELOPMENT CODE, CHAPTER 1, ZONING ORDINANCE.

   In addition to the provisions contained in this chapter, all
construction shall conform to the Apache Junction City Code, Volume II,
Land Development Code, Chapter 1: Zoning Ordinance.

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1478, passed 6-1-2019)

§ 7-1-2 GENERAL.

   (A)   Title. These regulations shall be known as the “Apache Junction
Division of Building Safety and Inspection Administrative Code,” may be
cited as such, and will be referred to herein after, as “this chapter.”

   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall serve as the
administrative, organizational, and enforcement rules and regulations
for the Technical Codes which regulate site preparation and
construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
demolition, repair, maintenance, use, and occupancy of buildings,
structures, and building service equipment or appurtenances attached
thereto within the City of Apache Junction, Arizona. The intent of the
Technical Codes is to establish the minimum requirements to safeguard
the public health, safety, and general welfare of the occupants of new
and existing buildings and structures through structural strength, means
of egress facilities, stability, sanitation, adequate light and
ventilation, energy conservation, safety to life and property from fire
and other hazards attributed to the built environment and to provide
safety to firefighters and emergency responders during emergency
operations.

   (C)   Technical Codes.

      (1)   The basis for the codes adopted under this chapter were
developed and published by a variety of national organizations. All
referenced codes and referenced standards, listed or noted in the
adopted codes, are adopted and applicable as prescribed in the
respective articles.

      (2)   The following codes make up what will be referred to
hereinafter as the “Apache Junction Technical Codes” or the “Technical
Codes”. The associated published codes shall be deemed and interpreted
to mean the specific Apache Junction Technical Code as listed below (the
publisher is noted in parenthesis after the model code name):

         (a)   Building Code - the currently adopted version of the
International Building Code (International Code Council “ICC”).

         (b)   Accessibility Code - The following statutes, regulations,
and documents are adopted by reference as part of the city Building
Code:

            1.   Americans With Disabilities Act - 42 U.S.C. Sections
12101 through 12213, 47 U.S.C. Sections 225 and 611 and the ADA
Amendments Act of 2008 (P.L. 110-325; 122 Stat. 3553).

            2.   Arizonans with Disabilities Act (A.R.S. Title 41,
Chapter 9, Article 8), as amended and its implementing rules, as amended
(Arizona Administrative Code, Title 10, Chapter 3, Article 4).

            3.   ICC 117.1-2017 Standard, “Accessible and Usable
Buildings and Facilities,” as published by the International Code
Council.

            4.   “2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design,” as
published by the United States Department of Justice, Civil Rights
Division.

               A.   Public entities, appendices B and D to 36 CFR 1191
(2009) and 28 CFR part 35.151 (2011).

               B.   Places of public accommodation and commercial
facilities, appendices B and D to 36 CFR 1191 (2009) and 28 CFR 36.401
through 36.406 (2011).

         (c)   Residential Code - the currently adopted version of the
International Residential Code for One and Two Family Dwellings (ICC).

         (d)   Electrical Code - the currently adopted version of the
National Electrical Code (National Fire Protection Association “NFPA”).

         (e)   Plumbing Code - the currently adopted version of the
International Plumbing Code (ICC).

         (f)   Mechanical Code - the currently adopted version of the
International Mechanical Code (ICC).

         (g)   Fuel Gas Code - the currently adopted version of the
International Fuel Gas Code (ICC).

         (h)   Fire Code - the currently adopted version of the
International Fire Code (ICC).

         (i)   Existing Building Code - the currently adopted version of
the International Existing Building Code (ICC).

         (j)   Commercial and Low-Rise Multi-Family Energy Code - the
currently adopted version of the International Energy Conservation Code,
(Commercial and Residential - both sections adopted) (ICC).

         (k)   Swimming Pool and Spa Code - the currently adopted
version of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ICC).

   (D)   The application of the Technical Codes shall be as follows:

      (1)   Building Code. The provisions of the Building Code shall
apply to the construction, alteration, relocation, enlargement,
replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location,
maintenance, removal, and demolition of every building or structure or
any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures,
except those buildings and structures covered by the Residential Code.
(See Vol. I, Article 7-2).

      (2)   Accessibility Code. The provisions of Accessibility Code
shall apply to new construction of public entity buildings and the new
construction and alteration of public accommodation and commercial
facilities so that buildings and facilities are readily accessible and
usable by individuals with disabilities. (See Vol. I, Article 7-3).

      (3)   Residential Code. The provisions of the Residential Code
shall apply to the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement,
replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, removal,
and demolition of detached 1- and 2-family dwellings, and attached
single-family dwellings meeting the requirements for townhouses, not
more than 3 stories above grade plane in height with separate means of
egress, and their accessory structures. These provisions apply to
building service equipment, connection to utilities, additions and
accessory structures of park models. The Residential Code covers all
components of a house, townhouse and related accessory structures,
including but not limited to structural, energy, mechanical, electrical,
plumbing and fuel gas components. (See Vol. I, Article 7-4).

      (4)   Electrical Code. The provisions of the Electrical Code shall
apply to the installation and removal of electrical conductors,
equipment, and raceways; signaling and communications conductors,
equipment, and raceways; and optical fiber cables and raceways; the
design, construction, installation, alteration, repairs, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of electrical systems,
equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances. (See Vol.
I, Article 7-5).

      (5)   Plumbing Code. The provisions of the Plumbing Code shall
apply to commercial and industrial occupancies and cover the
installation, alteration, repair, relocation, replacement, addition to,
use and/or and maintenance of plumbing systems, including non-flammable
medical gas, inhalation anesthetic, vacuum piping, nonmedical oxygen
systems, and sanitary and condensate vacuum collection systems, roof top
drainage systems, and equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings, and
appurtenances connected to a water or sewage system. (See Vol. I,
Article 7-6).

      (6)   Mechanical Code. The provisions of the Mechanical Code shall
apply to the design, installation, maintenance, alteration, repair, and
replacement of mechanical systems that are permanently installed and
utilized to provide control of environmental conditions and related
processes. The Code regulates appliances, appliance venting, indoor air
quality, duct and ventilation systems, exhaust systems, combustion air
provisions, boilers, water heaters and pressure vessels, refrigeration,
hydronic systems, fuel oil piping and storage, and solar thermal
systems. (See Vol. I, Article 7-7).

      (7)   Fuel Gas Code. The provisions of the Fuel Gas Code shall
apply to the installation of fuel-gas piping systems, fuel gas
appliances, gaseous hydrogen systems and related accessories. These
requirements cover natural gas piping systems with an operating pressure
of 125 pounds per square inch gauge (“psig”) or less, and for LP-gas
with an operating pressure of 20 psig or less extending from the point
of delivery to the outlet of the appliance shutoff valves, and the
installation, connection to the pipe outlet, and operation of commercial
and industrial gas appliances and related accessories. (See Vol. I,
Article 7-8).

      (8)   Fire Code. Both the City of Apache Junction and the
Superstition Fire and Medical District (“SFMD”) adopt a Fire Code. In
order to properly and effectively address all the code requirements for
new commercial and industrial construction, and work on existing
buildings, the fire code must be adopted by the City of Apache Junction,
as it contains complementary requirements to the Building Code. Both the
City of Apache Junction and the SFMD may address similar issues in plan
reviews for commercial and industrial projects. If a conflict arises,
the city and SFMD will confer and provide a common interpretation. The
Fire Code applies to regulations affecting or relating to structures,
processes, premises and safeguards regarding the hazard of fire and
explosion arising from the storage, handling, or use of structures,
materials, or devices; from conditions hazardous to life, property, or
public welfare in the occupancy of structures or premises; and matters
related to the construction, extension, repair, alteration, or removal
of fire suppression and/or alarm systems. (See Vol. I, Article 7-9).

      (9)   Existing Building Code.

         (a)   The provisions of the Existing Building Code may be
applied to legally existing buildings proposed to undergo repair,
alteration, addition, relocation, and/or a change of occupancy. The
intent of the Existing Building Code is to provide flexibility to permit
the use of alternative approaches to achieve compliance with minimum
requirements to safeguard the public health, safety and welfare insofar
as they are affected by the repair, alteration, addition, relocation
and/or change of occupancy of an existing building.

         (b)   Approval by the Building and Safety Manager must be
obtained prior to the use of the provisions of the existing building for
a building, or portion of a building:

            1.   That has not been previously occupied,

            2.   That has not been used for its intended purpose, or

            3.   For which a certificate of occupancy has not been
issued. (See Vol. I, Article 7-10).

      (10)   Commercial and Low-Rise Multi-Family Energy Code. The
provisions of the Commercial and Low-Rise Multi-Family Energy Code
(Commercial Provisions) apply to commercial buildings and the buildings’
sites and associated systems and equipment to regulate the design and
construction of buildings for the effective use and conservation of
energy over the useful life of the building. The provisions of the
Commercial and Low-Rise Multi-Family Energy Code (Multi-Family
Residential) apply to Group R-2, and R-4, 3 stories and less in height,
R-3 4 stories in height, and the buildings’ sites and associated systems
and equipment to regulate the design and construction of buildings for
the effective use and conservation of energy over the useful life of the
building, the energy efficiency of building thermal envelopes and
installation of energy efficient mechanical, lighting and power systems.
(See Commercial and Low-Rise Multi-Family Energy Code, Vol. I, Article
7-11).

      (11)   Swimming Pool and Spa Code. The provisions of the Swimming
Pool and Spa Code shall apply to the construction, alteration, movement,
renovation, replacement, repair and maintenance of aquatic recreation
facilities, pools and spas. The pools, spas and aquatic recreation
facilities covered by this Code are either permanent or temporary, and
shall only be those that are designed or manufactured to be connected to
a circulation system and that are intended for swimming, bathing or
wading. (See Vol. I, Article 7-12).

   (E)   Appendices. Provisions in the appendices of the Technical Codes
shall not apply unless specifically adopted.

   (F)   Definitions. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings as shown in this chapter.
Definitions located in the Technical Codes are hereby incorporated into
this chapter.

      ADDENDA. Changes to the released plans, or related construction
documents, which impact the architectural plans, structural plans, trade
plans or the design basis of a structure and are submitted after the
issuance of the permit.

      BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy.

      BUILDING AND SAFETY MANAGER. The officer or other designated
authority charged with the administration and enforcement of this
Chapter and the Technical Codes, or a regularly authorized deputy or
other designee. When the term or title administrative authority,
building official, chief inspector, code enforcement officer, code
official, gas official, plumbing official, mechanical official,
responsible official, or other similar designation is used in this
Chapter or in any of the Technical Codes, it shall be construed to mean
the Building and Safety Manager.

      BUILDING, EXISTING. A building erected prior to the adoption of
this Chapter or one for which a legal certificate of occupancy has been
issued.

      BUILDING SERVICE EQUIPMENT. The plumbing, mechanical, electrical,
fuel-gas, and elevator equipment including piping, wiring, fixtures, and
other accessories which provide sanitation, power, lighting, heating,
ventilation, cooling, refrigeration and/or fire suppression essential to
the occupancy of the building or structure for its designated use.

      JURISDICTION. The official power to make legal and administrative
decisions, which for the purposes of this Chapter is the City of Apache
Junction, Arizona.

      MAINTAINED. Kept in appropriate condition and operation based on
its original function; showing no signs of deterioration, alteration or
failure.

      OWNER. The person, individual, firm, corporation, company,
partnership, joint venture, association, estate, trust, receiver,
organization or other legal entity, with legal title or equitable
interest in a property.

      PERMIT. The official document issued electronically or hard copy
by the Building and Safety Manager authorizing performance of a
specified, legal activity.

      REVISIONS. Changes to the plans or related construction documents,
that are not made to resolve plan review issues, and which impact the
architectural plans, structural plans, trade plans or the design basis
of a structure and are submitted prior to the issuance of the permit.

      SHALL. As used in this chapter and the Technical Codes “is
mandatory.”

      SHELL BUILDING. A permitted commercial building or portion
thereof, that when completed, cannot qualify for a certificate of
occupancy. The shell includes the building thermal envelope, which must
be completed under the shell building permit.

      TENANT IMPROVEMENT. Work performed by or on behalf of a tenant to
complete a shell space, or in a completed building, or space within a
building, that has previously received a certificate of completion or a
certificate of occupancy.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-1-3 APPLICABILITY.

   (A)   Effective date. This chapter and the Technical Codes shall
apply to, and shall govern, permit applications received and accepted by
the Building and Safety Manager 30 days after Ordinance No. 1475
amending Apache Junction City Code, Volume I, Chapter 7: Buildings is
signed by the Mayor and made available to the public.

   (B)   Conflicting provisions. When conflicting provisions or
requirements occur between this chapter, the Technical Codes, and other
codes or laws, the most restrictive shall govern. When conflicts occur
between the Technical Codes, those provisions providing the greater
safety to life as determined by the Building and Safety Manager and the
Fire Marshal shall govern. In other conflicts where sanitation, life
safety, or fire safety are not involved, the most restrictive provisions
shall govern. Where, in a specific case, different sections of the
Technical Codes specify different materials, methods of construction, or
other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. When there is a
conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the
specific requirement shall be applicable.

   (C)   Other laws. The provisions of this chapter and the Technical
Codes shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of the Apache
Junction City Code, state, or federal laws.

   (D)   Application of references. References to article or section
numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall
be construed to refer to such article, section, or provision of this
chapter or the Technical Codes.

   (E)   Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards
referenced in this chapter or the Technical Codes shall be considered
part of the requirements of this chapter and the Technical Codes to the
prescribed extent of each reference. Where differences occur between
provisions of this chapter or the Technical Codes and the referenced
codes and standards, the provisions of this chapter and the Technical
Codes shall apply.

   (F)   Partial invalidity. In the event any part or provision of this
chapter or the Technical Codes is held to be invalid, illegal,
unconstitutional, or void, such ruling shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this chapter or the Technical Codes.

   (G)   Additions, alterations, and repairs. Provided the existing
building and building service equipment have been properly maintained,
and any alterations have been done with appropriate permits and
inspections, additions, alterations, or repairs may be made to a
building or its building service equipment without requiring the
existing building or its building service equipment to comply with all
the requirements of this chapter and the Technical Codes. The addition,
alteration, or repair shall conform to the requirements for a new
building or building service equipment and shall not overload or render
unsafe existing conditions or equipment. (See Existing Building Code,
Vol. I, Article 7-10).

   (H)   Existing installations. Building service equipment lawfully in
existence, and properly maintained, at the time of the adoption of the
Technical Codes may have its use, maintenance or repair continued if the
use, maintenance or repair, is in accordance with the original design
and a hazard to life, health or property has not been created by such
building service equipment.

   (I)   Existing Occupancy. The legal occupancy of any building or
structure existing on the date of the adoption of this chapter shall be
permitted to continue without change, provided such continued use is not
dangerous to life, health, and safety, the building or structure and the
building service equipment are properly maintained and unaltered or
altered and approved under permit and inspection, as determined by the
Building and Safety Manager. Issuance of the applicable certificate of
occupancy for commercial or a certificate of completion for residential
establishes an existing occupancy.

   (J)   Maintenance. Buildings, structures, and building service
equipment, existing and new, and parts thereof shall be maintained in a
safe and sanitary condition. Building service equipment shall be
maintained to function as originally installed or in a safer or more
code compliant fashion. Devices or safeguards, required by the Technical
Codes, shall be maintained in conformance with the Technical Code under
which installed. The owner or the owner’s designated agent shall be
responsible for the maintenance of building structures and their
building service equipment. To determine compliance with this section,
the Building and Safety Manager may cause a structure or building
service equipment to be re-inspected.

   (K)   Moved or relocated buildings. Buildings, structures, and their
building service equipment moved into or within this jurisdiction shall
comply with the provisions of the Technical Codes for new buildings or
structures and their building service equipment, or as specified by the
Building and Safety Manager.

   (L)   Temporary structures. The Building and Safety Manager is
authorized to issue a permit for temporary structures and temporary
uses. Such permits must be limited as to time of service, and cannot
exceed 180 calendar days. The Building and Safety Manager is authorized
to grant extensions for demonstrated good cause. Temporary buildings or
structures shall be completely removed upon the expiration of the time
limit stated in the permit.

   (M)   Mixed occupancies. Where a building contains both residential
and commercial occupancies, each occupancy shall be separately
considered and meet the applicable provisions of Commercial and Low-Rise
Multi-Family Energy Code and the Residential Code or Building Code.

   (N)   Low energy use buildings. The following buildings, or portions
thereof, separated from the remainder of the building by “building
thermal envelope assemblies” complying with the Commercial and Low-Rise
Multi-Family Energy Code shall be exempt from the thermal building
envelope provisions of the Commercial and Low-Rise Multi-Family Energy
Code:

      (1)   Those with a peak design rate of energy usage less than 3.4
BTU/H-FT 2 (10.7 W/M2) or 1.0 WATT/FT2 (10.7 W/M2) of floor area for
space conditioning purposes.

      (2)   Those that do not contain conditioned space. (Permanent
installation of an evaporative cooler does not create conditioned
space.)

   (O)   Historic buildings.

      (1)   Repairs, alterations, and additions necessary for the
preservation, restoration, rehabilitation, or continued use of a
building, structure, or its building service equipment may be made
without conforming to the requirements of the Technical Codes when
authorized by the Building and Safety Manager, provided:

         (a)   The building or structure has been designated by official
action of the legally constituted authority of this jurisdiction as
having special historical or architectural significance; and

         (b)   Unsafe conditions as described in this chapter are
corrected; and

         (c)   The restored building or structure and its building
service equipment will be no more hazardous based on life safety, fire
safety, and sanitation than the existing building as determined by the
Building and Safety Manager.

      (2)   Any building or structure that is listed in the State or
National Register of Historic Places; is designated as a historic
property or under local or state designation law or survey; is certified
as a contributing resource with a National Register listed or locally
designated historic district or with an opinion or certification that
the property is eligible to be listed on the National or State Registers
of Historic Places either individually or as a contributing building to
a historic district by the State Historic Preservation Officer or the
keeper of the National Register of Historic Places, is exempt from the
Energy Code.

   (P)   Appeals. Orders, decisions, or determinations made by the
Building and Safety Manager and his or her designee may, within 30
calendar days of the receipt of the notice of the decision, be appealed
to the Construction Board of Appeals, in accordance with Vol. I, §
7-1-5.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-1-4 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.

   (A)   Duties and powers. The Building and Safety Manager is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter and
Technical Codes. The Building and Safety Manager shall have the
authority to render interpretations of this chapter and the Technical
Codes and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the
application of their provisions. Such interpretations, policies, and
procedures shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this
chapter and the Technical Codes. Such policies and procedures shall not
have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in
this chapter or the Technical Codes.

   (B)   Deputies. In accordance with any applicable city procedures,
and with the concurrence of the Development Services Director, the
Building and Safety Manager shall have the authority to appoint deputy
building and safety managers, permit technicians, technical officers,
inspectors, plan examiners, and other employees. Such employees shall
have powers as delegated by the Building and Safety Manager.

   (C)   Applications and permits. The Building and Safety Manager shall
receive applications, review construction documents, and issue permits
for the erection, and alteration, demolition, and moving of buildings
and structures, inspect the premises where such permits have been
issued, and enforce compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
the Technical Codes. The Building and Safety Manager shall issue all
necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this chapter and
the Technical Codes.

   (D)   Inspections. The Building and Safety Manager shall cause all
required inspections to be made and the Building and Safety Manager
shall have the authority to accept reports of inspection by approved
agencies or individuals. Results of inspections by the Division of
Building Safety and Inspection will be communicated to the designated
person either digitally or in writing. Inspections done by approved
agencies or individuals will be certified by a responsible officer of
such approved agency or by the responsible individual and submitted
digitally to the Building and Safety Manager. The Building and Safety
Manager is authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary
to report upon unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the
approval of the Development Services Director.

   (E)   Identification. The Division of Building Safety and Inspection
personnel shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures
or premises or otherwise in the performance of duties under this chapter
or the Technical Codes.

   (F)   Right of entry. Where it is necessary to make an inspection to
enforce the provisions of this chapter or the Technical Codes, or where
the Building and Safety Manager has reasonable cause to believe there
exists in a structure or upon a premises a condition contrary to or in
violation of this chapter or the Technical Codes making the structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the Building and Safety
Manager is authorized to enter the structure or premises at reasonable
times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this chapter or the
Technical Codes, provided that if such structure or premises be
occupied, that credentials be presented to the occupant and entry
requested. If such structure or premises is unoccupied, the Building and
Safety Manager shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner
or other person having charge or control of the structure or premises
and request entry. If entry is refused, the Building and Safety Manager
shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.

   (G)   Department records. The Building and Safety Manager shall keep
official records of applications received, permits and certificates
issued, fees collected, reports of inspections, and notices and orders
issued. Such records shall be retained in the official records for the
period required for retention in the Division’s approved record
retention schedule.

   (H)   Approved materials and equipment. Materials, equipment, and
devices approved by the Building and Safety Manager shall be constructed
and installed in accordance with such approval. The use of used
materials meeting the requirements of this chapter or the Technical
Codes for new materials is permitted, subject to the approval of the
Building and Safety Manager.

   (I)   Modifications. Wherever there are practical difficulties
involved in carrying out the provisions of this chapter or the Technical
Codes, the Building and Safety Manager shall have the authority to grant
modifications for individual cases, upon application of the owner or
owner’s representative, provided the Building and Safety Manager shall
first find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of the
Codes impractical and the modification is in compliance with the intent
and purpose of this chapter and the Technical Codes and that such
modification does not lessen health, accessibility, life and fire
safety, or structural requirements. The basis for granting modifications
shall be recorded and entered in the files of the Division.

   (J)   Alternative materials, design, and methods of construction and
equipment. The provisions of this chapter and the Technical Codes are
not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit
any design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this
chapter or the Technical Codes, provided any such alternative is
approved by the Building and Safety Manager. An alternative material,
design, or method of construction may be approved where the Building and
Safety Manager finds the proposed design is satisfactory and complies
with the intent of the provisions of this chapter and the Technical
Codes, and the material, method, or work offered is, for the purpose
intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this chapter and
the Technical Codes in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire
resistance, durability, and safety. Records of alternative materials,
design, and methods of construction approvals shall be recorded and
entered in the files of the Division. Appeals of such determinations
shall be to the Construction Building Board of Appeals, in accordance
with Vol. I, § 7-1-5.

      (1)   Research reports. Supporting data, where deemed necessary to
assist in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically
provided for in this chapter or the Technical Codes shall be provided
and shall consist of valid research reports from approved sources.

      (2)   Tests. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance
with the provisions of this chapter or the Technical Codes, or evidence
of material or method does not conform to the requirements of this
chapter or the Technical Codes, or in order to substantiate claims for
alternative materials or methods, the Building and Safety Manager shall
have the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance to be made
at no expense to the city. Test methods shall be as specified in this
chapter or the Technical Codes or by other recognized test standards. In
the absence of recognized and accepted test methods, the Building and
Safety Manager may approve the testing procedures. Tests shall be
performed by an approved agency. Reports of such tests shall be retained
by the Building and Safety Manager for the period required in the
Division’s approved record retention schedule.

   (K)   Stop work orders. Whenever the Building and Safety Manager
finds any work regulated by this chapter or the Technical Codes being
performed in a manner either contrary to the provisions of this chapter
or the Technical Codes or dangerous or unsafe, the Building and Safety
Manager is authorized to issue a stop work order.

      (1)   Issuance. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall
be given to the owner of the property involved, or to the owner’s agent,
or to the person doing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the
cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the
reason for the order, and the conditions under which the cited work will
be permitted to resume.

      (2)   Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work
after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as
that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by this chapter.

      (3)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by a stop work order issued by
the Building and Safety Manager may appeal such stop work order to the
Construction Board of Appeals in accordance with Vol. I, § 7-1-5.

   (L)   Occupancy violations. When a building or structure, or building
service equipment therein regulated by this chapter and the Technical
Codes is being used contrary to the provisions of such codes, the
Building and Safety Manager may order such use discontinued by written
notice served on any person causing such use to be continued. Such
person shall, after receipt of notice, discontinue the use within the
time prescribed by the Building and Safety Manager and make the
building, structure, or portion thereof, comply with the requirements of
such Codes.

   (M)   Authority to disconnect utilities. The Building and Safety
Manager or authorized representative shall have the authority to
disconnect a utility service or energy supplied to the building,
structure, or building service equipment therein regulated by this
chapter or the Technical Codes in case of emergency where necessary to
eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property. The Building and
Safety Manager shall whenever possible notify the serving utility, the
owner, and occupant of the building, structure, or building service
equipment of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action, and
shall notify such serving utility, owner, and occupant of the building,
structure, or building service equipment, in writing, of such
disconnection, immediately thereafter.

   (N)   Authority to declare building service equipment
hazardous/unsafe. When the Building and Safety Manager determines that
building service equipment regulated in the Technical Codes has become
hazardous/unsafe to life, health, or property, or has become unsanitary,
the Building and Safety Manager shall order in writing that such
equipment either be removed or restored to a safe or sanitary condition,
as appropriate. The written notice shall fix a time limit for compliance
with such order. Defective building service equipment shall not be used,
operated, or maintained after receiving such notice.

      (1)   When such equipment or installation is to be disconnected, a
written notice of such disconnection and causes therefore shall be given
within 24 hours to the serving utility, the owner, and occupant of such
building, structure, or premises.

      (2)   When any building service equipment is used, operated, or
maintained in violation of the Technical Codes and in violation of a
notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this section, the individual
or individuals responsible for continued use, operation, or maintenance
shall be subject to the penalties described in this chapter and the
Building and Safety Manager shall institute appropriate action to
prevent, restrain, correct, or abate the violation.

   (O)   Connection after order to disconnect. Persons shall not make
connections from an energy, fuel, or power supply nor supply energy or
fuel to building service equipment that has been disconnected or ordered
to be disconnected by the Building and Safety Manager or the use has
been ordered to be discontinued by the Building and Safety Manager until
the Building and Safety Manager authorizes the reconnection and use of
such equipment.

   (P)   Liability. Where not in conflict with A.R.S. Title 12, Chapter
7, Article 2, and relevant case law the Building and Safety Manager,
member of the Construction Board of Appeals, or a city employee charged
with the enforcement of this chapter, while acting for the jurisdiction
in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required
by this chapter or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby
be rendered liable personally and is hereby relieved from personal
liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of
any act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official
duties. Any suit instituted against an officer or employee because of an
act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of
duties and under the provisions of this chapter shall be defended by
legal representative of the jurisdiction until the final termination of
the proceedings. The Building and Safety Manager or any subordinate
shall not be liable for cost in any action, suit or proceeding that is
instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-1-5 CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS.

   (A)   Board created. There shall be, and is hereby created, a
Construction Board of Appeals, consisting of 5 members who are qualified
by experience and training to pass judgment upon matters pertaining to
building and construction. The purpose of the Construction Board of
Appeals (Board) is be to hear appeals from determinations made by the
Building and Safety Manager; to provide for reasonable interpretations
of the provisions of the Technical Codes to determine the suitability of
alternate materials and methods of construction; and to recommend
changes of the various building and fire codes to the Building and
Safety Manager.

   (B)   Membership and terms of office.

      (1)   The Board shall consist of 5 members who are appointed by
the Council. The terms of the Board members shall be for 3 years and
shall end on October 31 of succeeding years, or until their successors
are duly appointed, except that in the event of the Board membership
complement falling below the required quorum level set forth in §
7-1-5(F)(1), the membership vacancies shall be filled by the Council for
their unexpired terms any time before the annual October appointment
cycle from the then-existing talent bank applications. Such terms shall
be so staggered that no more than 3 members' terms conclude in the same
year. Members need not be residents of the city. Continued absence of
any member from meetings of the Board shall, at the discretion of the
Council, render any such member liable for removal from office by the
Council. Any member absent for 3 consecutive meetings without being
excused shall be considered as having vacated their appointment.
Appointments to fill unexpired terms shall be made in the same manner as
the vacated member, except as noted above due to a lack of a quorum.
Members of the Board shall serve without pay.

      (2)   The Building and Safety Manager or designee shall serve as
Secretary to the Board but shall have no vote therein.

   (C)   Board specialties. The members of the Board shall consist of: 1
architect or engineer licensed by the State of Arizona; 1 general
building contractor licensed by the State of Arizona and experienced in
the construction of commercial/industrial buildings; 1 licensed
residential homebuilder experienced in the construction of 1- and
2-family dwelling units; 1 electrical, plumbing or mechanical contractor
licensed by the State of Arizona; and 1 general public member.

Trade related members shall have had at least 5 years of recent
experience in their respective trade or profession. No member shall be a
current employee of the City of Apache Junction. Members shall comply
with the City of Apache Junction Code of Conduct as adopted by the
Council.

   (D)   Officers. The Board shall annually select 1 of its members to
serve as Chair and 1 member to serve as Vice Chair.

   (E)   Appeal procedures.

      (1)   An appeal of a determination of the Building and Safety
Manager shall be filed within 30 calendar days from the date of the
determination. The written appeal shall identify the specific Code or
Codes, actions or determinations made by the Building and Safety
Manager, the facts that are in error and the relief sought.

      (2)   The Board shall have the authority to overturn, uphold, or
modify a determination of the Building and Safety Manager. The Board
shall be authorized to approve an alternate material or method of
construction to that required by the Technical Codes, provided the Board
finds that the proposed design is satisfactory, complies with the intent
of the requirements of the Technical Codes, and the material, method, or
work to be provided meets the intended purpose and is at least the
equivalent to that prescribed in the Technical Codes in quality,
strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, and safety.

      (3)   Appellate hearings procedure shall be as follows:

         (a)   The Building and Safety Manager, as appropriate, shall
brief the Board on the key elements of the appeal, including the Code
requirements and other pertinent information.

         (b)   The appellant may present their position, explaining the
facts and reasons for the appeal.

         (c)   Pertinent staff or other witnesses may add additional
information or testimony.

         (d)   The Board shall deliberate the case in public and shall
reach a decision at the end of the hearing and shall state the
determination and factual findings on the record.

         (e)   The Board shall place decisions and findings in writing,
signed by the Chair or Vice Chair within 5 calendar days after the
hearing in which the determination was made. The Building and Safety
Manager shall forward a notice of decision to the appellant by certified
mail. Said notice of decision shall state findings of fact, the
determination, reasons for the decision, conditions related to the
granting of the determination as established by the Board, and whether
or not the appeal meets the requirements of this chapter. The decision
of the Board shall be final, subject to court review only, and shall not
be appealable to the City Council.

   (F)   Convening meetings.

      (1)   The Board shall meet upon notice of the Building and Safety
Manager, at the request of the Chair or Vice Chair, within 30 calendar
days after the receipt by the Building and Safety Manager of an appeal,
or at stated periodic meetings. Meetings and hearings of the Board shall
be public and in the presence of a quorum. Meetings shall conform to the
requirements of the open meeting laws of the State of Arizona.
Appellants and their representatives shall be given an opportunity to be
heard and may hire a legal professional to represent them.

      (2)   Minutes of meetings shall be made, and after approval at a
subsequent meeting, shall be signed by the Chair or Vice Chair and
retained on file in the Division.

   (G)   Quorum and voting. Four members of the Board shall constitute a
quorum. In varying the application of any provision of the Technical
Codes, or related Codes of the city or in modifying an order of the
Building and Safety Manager, the affirmative vote of 4 members shall be
required. Failure to secure 4 concurring votes shall be deemed a
confirmation of the decision of the Building and Safety Manager.

   (H)   Enforcement. The Building and Safety Manager is authorized to
enforce decisions of the Board or, upon successful review, of the
superior court or appellate court.

   (I)   Fees. The fee for each appeal to the Construction Board of
Appeals shall be as set forth in Vol. I, Article 4-4: Development
Services Fees. Said fee shall be paid with the filing of the appeal and
shall be refunded only if the Building and Safety Manager determines
that the appeal cannot proceed.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019; Am. Ord. 1520, passed 12-7-2021)

§ 7-1-6 PERMITS.

   (A)   Permits required. Any owner or authorized agent who intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the
occupancy of a building or structure, or building service equipment, or
to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert, or replace
any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system, the installation of
which is regulated by this chapter or the Technical Codes, or to cause
such work to be done, shall first make application to the Building and
Safety Manager and obtain the required permit or permits. However,
governmental entities acting in their governmental capacity, are exempt
from having to obtain a permit, but may apply for one without having to
pay the required fee.

   (B)   Work exempt from permit. Exemptions from permit requirements of
this chapter shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to
be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this chapter or
the Technical Codes or any other laws or ordinances of the city. Permits
shall not be required for the following:

      (1)   Building permits. A building permit shall not be required
for the following:

         (a)   One-story detached enclosed accessory structures not
exceeding 120 square feet in area and not exceeding 9 feet in height to
the midpoint of the roof, not closer than 6 feet to other structures and
in compliance with all zoning requirements for an accessory structure
per Apache Junction City Code, Volume II, Land Development Code, Chapter
1: Zoning Ordinance. The structure cannot be served by more than 2 20
amp circuits, installed per code and cannot have any plumbing. The
structure cannot contain habitable space.

         (b)   An unenclosed shade structure not exceeding 200 square
feet in area and not exceeding 10 feet in height to the midpoint of the
roof, not closer than 6 feet to other structures and in compliance with
all zoning requirements for an accessory structure per Apache Junction
City Code, Volume II, Land Development Code, Chapter 1: Zoning
Ordinance. The structure cannot be served by more than 2 20 amp
circuits, installed per code, and cannot have any plumbing except a mist
system or a waterline, protected by an approved back flow prevention
device serving a hose-connected outlet and installed in compliance with
this chapter. The shade structure must be constructed in compliance with
manufacturer’s instructions applicable to the shade kit, per a design
approved by the City of Apache Junction Division of Building Safety and
Inspection or per this chapter.

         (c)   Fences or block walls not over 6 feet (91.44 cm) in
height measured at 3 feet from the exterior side. Fences constructed in
federally patented easements (FPEs), adjacent to public right-of-way
(ROW), or across natural drainage ways require zoning review.

         (d)   Retaining walls which are not over 4 feet (1,219 mm) in
height measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall,
provided the retaining wall is not supporting a surcharge, is not
impounding Class I, II, or III-A liquids, and is not located on a public
easement.

         (e)   Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity
does not exceed 5,000 gallons (18,925 L) and the ratio of height to
diameter or width does not exceed 2:1.

         (f)   Exterior concrete such as, a stoop, uncovered patio,
sidewalks or driveways that is not intended for current or future use in
a structure, and is not located on a public easement. Top of the
concrete may not be more than 30 inches (762 mm) above grade within 3
feet of the edge of concrete.

         (g)   Painting, papering, floor tiling, carpeting, baseboard
and similar finish work. (Tiling or floor work in a commercial kitchen
requires a permit.)

         (h)   Replacement of cabinets and countertops in bathrooms or
other spaces where no plumbing is relocated.

         (i)   Replacement of cabinets and countertops in kitchens where
no plumbing, no electrical receptacles and/or gas connections are
relocated, and the kitchen is served by 2 20 amp small appliance
circuits with required ground fault protection.

         (j)   Temporary motion picture, television, and theater stage
sets and scenery.

         (k)   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to detached 1- and
2-family dwellings, which can contain no more than 18 inches (430 mm) of
water, do not exceed 5,000 gallons (18,925 L), and are installed
entirely above ground.

         (l)   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or
agricultural purposes and not including service systems.

         (m)   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to
detached 1- and 2-family dwellings.

         (n)   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall, projecting
not more than 54 inches (1,372 mm) from the exterior wall, and not
requiring additional support in detached 1-and 2-family dwellings and
Group U occupancies.

         (o)   Nonfixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters,
and partitions not over 5 feet 9 inches (1,753 mm) in height.

         (p)   Decks accessory to a 1- and 2-family dwelling,
manufactured home, park model, that are not more than 200 square feet in
area, that are not more than 30 inches above any grade within 36 inches
measured horizontally to the deck edge, are not attached to a dwelling
and do not serve the exit door required by IRC section R311.4.

         (q)   In addition to divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(o), the
Building and Safety Manager is authorized to waive the requirement to
obtain a building permit for additional items where it is found the
nature of the work to be performed does not require a permit to obtain
compliance with this chapter, the Technical Codes and other ordinances
of the city.

      (2)   Electrical permits. An electrical permit shall not be
required for the following:

         (a)   Portable motors or other portable appliances energized by
means of a cord or cable having an attachment plug end to be connected
to an approved receptacle when that cord or cable is permitted by the
Electrical Code.

         (b)   Repair or replacement of fixed motors, transformers, or
fixed approved appliances of the same type and rating in the same
location.

         (c)   Listed cord- and plug-connected temporary decorative
lighting.

         (d)   Repair or replacement of current-carrying parts of any
switch, contactor, or control device.

         (e)   Re-installation of attachment plug receptacles, but not
the outlets therefor.

         (f)   Replacement of branch circuit overcurrent devices of the
required capacity in the same location.

         (g)   Repair or replacement of electrodes or transformers of
the same size and capacity for signs or gas tube systems.

         (h)   Taping joints.

         (i)   Removal of electrical wiring.

         (j)   Temporary wiring for experimental purposes in suitable
experimental laboratories.

         (k)   The wiring for temporary theater, motion picture, or
television stage sets.

         (l)   Electrical wiring, devices, appliances, apparatus, or
equipment operating at less than 25 volts and not capable of supplying
more than 50 watts of energy.

         (m)   Low-energy power, control, and signal circuits of Class
II and Class III as defined in the Electrical Code.

         (n)   Installation, alteration, or repair of electrical wiring,
apparatus, or equipment or the generation, transmission, distribution,
or metering of electrical energy or in the operation of signals or the
transmission of intelligence by a public or private utility in the
exercise of its function as a serving utility.

         (o)   In addition to divisions (B)(2)(a) through (B)(2)(n), the
Building and Safety Manager is authorized to waive the requirement to
obtain an electrical permit for additional items where it is found the
nature of the work to be performed does not require a permit to obtain
compliance with this chapter, the Technical Codes and other ordinances
of the city.

      (3)   Fuel gas permits. A fuel gas permit shall not be required
for the following:

         (a)   Portable heating appliance.

         (b)   Replacement of any minor part that does not alter
approval of equipment or make such equipment unsafe.

         (c)   Replacement of gas water heating appliances of equal or
less Btu/cfh rating and minor modification to electrical, plumbing,
mechanical and fuel gas connections necessary to serve the new appliance
in 1-or 2-family residential homes, and manufactured homes where the
venting and combustion air are compliant with current code requirements.

         (d)   Replacement of gas pool and spa heating appliances of
equal or less Btu/cfh rating not located inside a structure and not
located closer than 5 feet from a property line.

         (e)   In addition to divisions (B)(3)(a)(a) through (B)(3)(d),
the Building and Safety Manager is authorized to waive the requirement
to obtain a fuel-gas permit for additional items where it is found the
nature of the work to be performed does not require a permit to obtain
compliance with this chapter, the Technical Codes and other ordinances
of the city.

      (4)   Mechanical permits. A mechanical permit shall not be
required for the following:

         (a)   Portable heating appliance.

         (b)   Portable ventilation equipment.

         (c)   Portable cooling unit.

         (d)   Steam, hot, or chilled water piping within any heating or
cooling equipment regulated by the Mechanical Code.

         (e)   Replacement of any part not altering its approval or
making it unsafe.

         (f)   Portable evaporative cooler.

         (g)   Replacement of evaporative coolers affixed to a 1- and
2-family dwelling where the replacement equipment is of equal or lesser
airflow (cfm) and is placed in the same location as the existing
evaporative cooler.

         (h)   Repair or replacement in kind (equal or less cfm and
amperage rating), by a licensed contractor, of an air-conditioner unit,
furnace, heat pump or packaged unit not over 5 tons (17.5 kW) of
conditioning capacity. Replacement equipment shall be in the same
location and equal to or less than the weight of that which is replaced.
Repair or replacement of refrigeration systems located inside a
commercial building shall require a permit and compliance with all
requirements of this Code for the classification of refrigerant utilized
in the new equipment.

         (i)   In addition to divisions (B)(4)(a) through (B)(4)(f), the
Building and Safety Manager is authorized to waive the requirement to
obtain a mechanical permit for additional items where it is found the
nature of the work to be performed does not require a permit to obtain
compliance with this chapter, the Technical Codes and other ordinances
of the city.

      (5)   Plumbing permits. A plumbing permit shall not be required
for the following:

         (a)   Stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste, or vent
pipe, not including defective concealed trap, drainpipe, water, soil,
waste, or vent pipe requiring removal and replacement.

         (b)   Clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes,
valves, or fixtures, and the removal and reinstallation of water
closets, not including the replacement or rearrangement of valves,
pipes, or fixtures.

         (c)   Replacement of electric water heating appliances of equal
or less amperage rating, where code required bonding and disconnecting
means are present, in 1- and 2-family residential, R-l, R-2, R-3, and
R-4 occupancies, manufactured homes, and park models where the appliance
serves an individual dwelling unit.

         (d)   Replacement or new installation of potable water
conditioning or treating appliances, in 1-and 2-family residential,
manufactured homes, and park models where the appliance serves an
individual dwelling unit.

         (e)   Replacement of evaporative coolers of equal or less cfm
and amperage rating, in 1- and 2-family residential and manufactured
homes where the appliance serves an individual dwelling unit.

         (f)   Installation of an automatic hot water circulating pump
energized by means of a cord or cable having an attachment plug end for
connection to a 115-volt receptacle in 1- and 2-family residential and
manufactured homes where the system serves an individual dwelling unit.

         (g)   Installation of private sub-meters on an existing
master-metered potable water supply system.

         (h)   In addition to divisions (B)(5)(a) through (B)(5)(g), the
Building and Safety Manager is authorized to waive the requirement to
obtain a plumbing permit for additional items where it is found the
nature of the work to be performed does not require a permit to obtain
compliance with this chapter, the Technical Codes and other ordinances
of the city.

   (C)   Emergency repairs. Where equipment replacements and repairs
requiring a permit must be performed in an emergency situation, the
permit application shall be submitted within the next working business
day.

   (D)   Ordinary repairs. Application or notice to the Building and
Safety Manager is not required for ordinary repairs to structures,
replacement of lamps, or the connection of approved portable electrical
equipment to approved permanently installed receptacles. Such repairs
shall not include the cutting away of any wall, partition, or portion
thereof, the removal or cutting of any structural beam or load-bearing
support, or the removal or change of any required means of egress, or
rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the egress requirements;
nor shall ordinary repairs include addition to, alteration of,
replacement, or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer,
drainage, drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent, or similar piping,
electrical wiring, or mechanical or other work affecting public health
or general safety.

   (E)   Public service agencies. A permit shall not be required for the
installation, alteration, or repair of generation, transmission,
distribution, or metering or other related equipment under the ownership
and control of public service agencies by established right.

   (F)   Temporary structures and uses. The Building and Safety Manager
is authorized to issue a permit for temporary structures and temporary
uses. Such permits shall be limited as to time of service, but shall not
be permitted for more than 180 calendar days. The Building and Safety
Manager is authorized to grant extensions for demonstrated cause.
Temporary structures and uses shall conform to the structural strength,
fire safety, means of egress, accessibility, light, ventilation, and
sanitary requirements of this chapter and the Technical Codes as
determined by the Building and Safety Manager to ensure the public
health, safety, and general welfare. The Building and Safety Manager is
authorized to terminate such permit and to order the temporary structure
or use to be discontinued.

   (G)   Application for permit.

      (1)   Requirements. To obtain a permit an applicant shall first
make a completed application either in writing on a form furnished by
the Division of Building Safety and Inspection, or electronically via
the designated digital permitting system. A completed application, at a
minimum, shall contain the following:

         (a)   A parcel number as assigned by the Pinal or Maricopa
County Assessor for the location where the proposed work is to be done.

         (b)   An address if previously assigned by the City of Apache
Junction Planning Division.

         (c)   The name, mailing address, phone number and email address
of the current owner.

         (d)   The name, mailing address, phone number and email address
of the applicant for the permit.

         (e)   The name, mailing address, phone number and email address
of the contractor, architect and/or engineer as applicable for the
proposed work.

         (f)   A description of the proposed work to be done or proposed
occupancy change.

         (g)   Construction documents and other information as required
in division (H) below.

         (h)   Provide accurate square footages per the units of measure
defined in Vol. I, § 4-4-1(E)(5).

         (i)   The valuation of the proposed work.

         (j)   Signature of the applicant, or the applicant’s authorized
agent.

         (k)   Certification of the applicant that the documents
submitted for permit are in accordance with Apache Junction City Code
requirements, including this chapter, Vol I, Chapter 4, and Vol. II,
Chapter 1, and all Planning and Zoning stipulations.

         (l)   Other data and information as required by the Building
and Safety Manager.

      (2)   Licensing requirement.

         (a)   When this chapter requires the issuance of a building
permit as a condition precedent to the construction, alteration,
improvement, demolition or repair of a building, structure or other
improvement to real property as part of the application procedures, the
city shall require that each applicant for a building permit file a
signed statement that the contractor is currently licensed under the
provisions of this chapter with the contractor’s license number. All
work performed on the premises shall be by licensed contractor(s) and
the building permit shall be issued to a general contractor licensed by
the State of Arizona Registrar of Contractors when a building permit is
required.

         (b)   Exception. Permits for single family detached dwellings
and their accessory structures may be issued to the owner if the
structure, group of structures or appurtenances, including the
improvements thereto, are intended for occupancy solely by the owner and
are not intended for occupancy by members of the public as the owner’s
employees or business visitors and the structures or appurtenances are
not intended for sale or for rent. In all actions brought under this
exception, proof of the sale or rent or the offering for sale or rent of
any such structure by the owner-builder within 1 year after final
approval or issuance of a certificate of occupancy by the city is prima
facie evidence that such project was undertaken for the purpose of sale
or rent.

      (3)   Action on application. The Building and Safety Manager shall
examine or cause to be examined applications for permits and submitted
documents for completeness, within a reasonable time after receiving the
application. If an application is incomplete, required documents are
missing, and/or the submittal contains a readily apparent code violation
the Building and Safety Manager shall place a hold on the application
and request completion of the application, provision of the missing
documents and/or correction of the noted violation(s). If a completed
application with required documents is not produced in 16 city business
days, the application shall be rejected. The Building and Safety Manager
is authorized to examine or cause to be examined buildings, structures,
and sites where an application has been filed.

      (4)   Time limitation of application. An application for a permit
for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned based on
the number of elapsed calendar days shown below, for that category of
permit. The elapsed time will be measured from the last contact by the
Development Services Department, or other review entity, requesting
action by the applicant. The Building and Safety Manager is authorized
to grant 1 extension of time not exceeding the original number of days.
Such extension shall be requested in writing with justifiable cause
demonstrated.

 

APPLICATION EXPIRATION TIME FRAMES

Type of Application

Days to Expiration

Electrical, Mechanical/Fuel Gas, Plumbing

30 days

Park Model, Manufactured Home, Factory Built Building

45 days

1- and 2-Family Residential

90 days

Commercial (Industrial)

120 days

 

   (H)   Submittal documents. Plans, specifications, engineering
calculations, diagrams, soil investigation reports, special inspection
and structural observation programs, and other data as required by the
Building and Safety Manager shall be submitted with each application for
a permit. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered
design professional as required by state law and this chapter. Where
special conditions exist, the Building and Safety Manager is authorized
to require additional construction documents to be prepared by a
registered design professional.

      (1)   Method of submittal. Initial application documents may be
submitted on paper or digitally through the city’s designated portal or
website. Unless previously arranged with the Building and Safety
Manager, no mixed media (paper and digital) submittals will be accepted.

         (a)   Paper documents.

            1.   Residential and trade permits. If paper is used as the
medium for submittal 2 sets of required documents shall be provided.

            2.   Commercial permits. If paper is used at least 4 sets of
required documents shall be submitted: 2 sets are for city review, 1 set
is for sewer review and 1 set is for fire review.

         (b)   Digital documents. Digital documents shall be submitted
in compliance with the Digital Submittal Policy.

      (2)   Engineered truss plans. Engineered truss plans for floors
and/or roofs shall be submitted at the time of application for the first
review.

      (3)   Information on construction documents. Construction
documents shall be dimensioned and drawn upon suitable material.
Construction documents shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the
location, nature, and extent of the work proposed and show in detail
that it will conform to the provisions of this chapter, the Technical
Codes, and relevant laws and ordinances.

         (a)   Means of egress. For construction under the Apache
Junction Building Code the construction documents shall show in
sufficient detail the location, construction, size and character of all
portions of the means of egress in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter. The construction documents shall designate the number of
occupants to be accommodated on every floor, and in all rooms and
spaces.

         (b)   Exterior wall envelope. Construction documents for all
buildings shall describe the exterior wall envelope in sufficient detail
to determine compliance with this chapter. The construction documents
shall provide details of the exterior wall envelope as required,
including flashing, intersections with dissimilar materials, corners,
end details, control joints, intersections at roof, eaves or parapets,
means of drainage, water-resistive membrane and details around openings.

         (c)   Site plan. The construction documents submitted with the
application for permit shall be accompanied by a site plan showing to
scale the size and location of new construction and existing structures
on the site, distances from lot lines, easements, federal patent
easement, the established street grades and the proposed finished grades
and, as applicable, flood hazard areas, floodways, design flood
elevations and any additional information required by the Building and
Safety Manager and Development Services Director; and it shall be drawn
in accordance with an accurate boundary line survey. In the case of
demolition, the site plan shall show construction to be demolished and
the location and size of existing structures and construction that are
to remain on the site or plot. The Building and Safety Manager, in
consultation with the Development Services Director, is authorized to
waive or modify the requirement for a site plan when the application for
permit is for alteration or repair or when otherwise warranted.

         (d)   Braced wall design. For construction under the Apache
Junction Residential Code utilizing braced wall design, braced wall
lines shall be identified on the construction documents. Pertinent
information including, but not limited to, bracing methods, location and
length of braced wall panels, anchoring/foundation requirements and
fastening requirements of braced wall panels and all related load
transfer connections shall be provided.

      (4)   Title sheet information. The construction documents shall
contain a title sheet or title sheets indicating the name, address, and
phone numbers of project owner(s), design professionals, and contractors
(if known). The title sheet shall also contain information regarding the
code review as performed by the design professional, including the area
of the building, type of construction, type(s) of occupancy, height and
area modifications (if any), fire sprinklers (if any), deferred
submittals approved by the Building and Safety Manager (if any), and
other information as directed by the Building and Safety Manager.

      (5)   Outdoor lighting compliance. Submittal documents for
projects proposing outdoor lighting fixtures shall contain, but not be
limited to, the following information:

         (a)   Plans indicating the type of illuminating devices,
fixtures, lamps, supports, other devices, etc. and their location on the
premises.

         (b)   Description of the illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps,
supports, and other devices, and the like, including manufacturers’ cut
sheets.

         (c)   Photometric study, including a plan of the premises
showing fixture locations; calculated light levels at various points
inside the parking lot, along walkways, or other occupied outdoor areas;
expected light levels at the property lines; and maximum, minimum, and
average light levels.

         (d)   Certification that the design of the outdoor lighting
system complies with Vol. II, Chapter 1 of the Apache Junction City
Code.

   (I)   Deferred submittals.

      (1)   General. The deferral of submittal items shall have the
prior approval of the Building and Safety Manager. For the purposes of
this chapter, deferred submittals are defined as those portions of the
design not submitted at the time of the application and that are subject
to the same plan review and approval process as the original permit
application. All deferred submittals shall be submitted a minimum of 30
calendar days before scheduled installation of the item(s) deferred.
Approval shall be completed prior to the installation of deferred item
for the project. The approved documents shall be incorporated into the
permit documents.

      (2)   Registered design professional review. Where a registered
professional is responsible for the plans or elements of a plan where a
submittal is deferred, the documents for deferred submittal items shall
be submitted to the registered design professional of record who shall
review them and forward them to the Building and Safety Manager with a
notation indicating the deferred submittal documents have been reviewed
and been found to be in general conformance to the design of the
building. The deferred submittal items shall not be installed until the
design and submittal documents have been approved by the Building and
Safety Manager.

      (3)   Deferred submittals may include: commercial fire sprinkler
systems, residential fire sprinkler systems, commercial fire
notification systems, commercial fire detection systems, fire
standpipes, alternative fire suppression systems, rack storage plans,
elevators, elevator recall systems, refrigerant vapor alarm systems,
prefabricated metal stairs, prefabricated metal storage systems,
overhead cranes, industrial equipment, and other deferred submittal
items not listed herein, with the prior approval of the Building and
Safety Manager. Items that shall not be deferred include: structural
design of elements not included in the list above, building plumbing
systems, building mechanical systems, building electrical systems,
outdoor lighting systems and landscaping designs.

      (4)   Fee. Deferred submittals are a special service of the
Building Safety and Inspection Division requiring additional processing
and plan review time beyond that required for projects in which all of
the required documents are submitted with the initial submission. This
special service requires payment of an additional fee as established in
Vol I, Article 4-4: Development Services Fees.

      (5)   Deferred submittal and addendums. Deferred submittals do not
constitute the phasing of construction permits and may constitute an
addendum to the original permit or application if the deferred submittal
involves changes in the design or work meeting the definition of an
addendum.

   (J)   Master plan program. The Building and Safety Manager may
establish a master plan program for the submission, review and
applicability of replicable plans. The policy will set the minimum
number of units required to participate in the program, the maximum
number of options, configurations, and the like allowed per plan,
maximum length of time master approval is good for and a process for
addressing design or inspection issues.

   (K)   Discretion. The Building and Safety Manager is authorized to
waive the submission of construction documents and other data, where a
registered design professional is not required, if it is found the
nature of the work applied for is such that review of construction
documents is not necessary to obtain compliance with this chapter, the
Technical Codes, and other ordinances of the city.

   (L)   Registered design professional. In accordance with A.R.S. §
32-144, permit documents shall be prepared by a qualified Arizona
registrant for the following:

      (1)   New buildings or structures that:

         (a)   Exceed 2 stories in height (including basements); or

         (b)   Exceed 3,000 square feet of floor area, measured to the
outside surface of exterior walls; or

         (c)   Are intended for occupancy by more than 20 persons on a
continuous basis (as calculated under the Building Code); or

         (d)   Have structural elements with a span exceeding 20 feet,
not including wood or steel trusses or lintels designed by a registered
engineer.

      (2)   Additions or alterations to existing buildings or structures
that:

         (a)   Meet or exceed the requirements for new buildings or
structures as listed in under division (L)(1) above.

         (b)   Except for an addition that does not exceed 1,500 square
feet and is for the purpose of the storage of chattels.

      (3)   (a)   When deemed necessary by the Building and Safety
Manager to ensure compliance with this chapter and the Technical Codes.

         (b)   Exceptions. The following are exempted from the above
requirements and do not require preparation by an Arizona registrant:

            1.   Landscaping planting plans, and

            2.   Detached 1- and 2-family dwellings constructed in
accordance with the Residential Code.

   (M)   Registered design professional in responsible charge.

      (1)   Where it is required that permit submittal documents be
prepared by a registered design professional, the Building and Safety
Manager shall be authorized to require the owner or owner’s authorized
agent, to engage and designate on the building permit application, or
plans, a registered design professional who shall act as the registered
design professional of record. The registered design professional of
record is responsible for the project covered under the permit until the
issuance of a certificate of completion or of occupancy. If the
circumstances require, the owner shall designate a substitute registered
design professional of record who shall perform the duties required of
the original registered design professional of record. The Building and
Safety Manager shall be notified in writing by the owner if the
registered design professional of record is changed or is unable to
continue to perform the duties.

      (2)   The registered design professional in responsible charge
shall be responsible for reviewing and coordinating submittal documents
prepared by others, including phased and deferred submittal items and
equipment lists, for compatibility with the design of the building.
Where structural, electrical, or mechanical observation is required by
this chapter, the registered design professional in responsible charge
or by registered design professional involved with a specific element,
the observation program shall name the individual or firms who are to
perform observation and describe the stages of construction where the
observation is to occur.

   (N)   Review of submittal and construction documents. If the
submittal documents and/or the construction documents do not conform to
the requirements of this chapter and applicable planning and zoning,
subdivision, engineering or other ordinances and laws, the Building and
Safety Manager may do 1 of the following:

      (1)   Return to the applicant a set of the submitted plans and
documents with the necessary corrections and additional information
required marked on the plans and documents. The applicant may request a
meeting to review the corrections and information requested. The
applicant can resubmit corrected plans for an additional review. The
corrected plans shall have revision dates and changes shall be
identified by clouding, and the like. If plans are returned after the
first resubmittal (second review) additional review fees shall be
charged per Vol. I, Article 4-4.

      (2)   Reject such application in writing, identifying the reasons
for rejection. Rejected plans are not eligible for resubmittal. If the
application is rejected, the applicant may appeal the decision in
accordance with this chapter.

      (3)   If there is a written agreement between the owner,
registered design professional and the Building and Safety Manager
regarding required changes that must be made or issues to be addressed,
the Building and Safety Manager may release under a “conditional permit
release” the application and plans for permit issuance. The applicant
must request the conditional permit release permit to be issued and pay
any outstanding fees.

   (O)   Approval of construction documents. When the Building and
Safety Manager issues a permit, the construction documents shall be
marked, in writing, by stamp or digitally, as “Reviewed for Code
Compliance.”

      (1)   Permitted plan availability.

         (a)   aper plans. One set of construction documents so reviewed
shall be retained by the Building Safety Division as required by the
approved Building Safety Division retention schedule. Other sets shall
be returned to the applicant with 1 to be kept at the site of work and
open to inspection by the Building and Safety Manager.

         (b)   Digital plans. When plans submitted and reviewed
digitally are released for permit issuance, a digital copy will be
provided to the applicant when the permit is issued. The applicant is
responsible for ensuring access to the reviewed digital plans is
available at the job site.

         (c)   Previous approvals. This chapter and the Technical Codes
shall not require changes, during construction, in the construction
documents, construction, or designated occupancy of a structure for
which a lawful permit has been heretofore issued or otherwise lawfully
authorized, and the construction of which has been pursued in good faith
and has not been abandoned.

      (2)   Addenda and revisions to submittal documents. The project
owner may submit modifications of the application or the attached
submittal documents at any time prior to the final completion of the
work. Revisions (changes made prior to the issuance of the permit) and
addenda (changes made after permit issuance) shall be subject to the
same plan review and approval process as the original permit
application. Upon approval, revised/modified documents shall supersede
prior versions and shall be incorporated into the original submission or
permit documents. The approved revisions and addenda shall not
constitute a new permit request. The review and approval of revisions
and addenda constitutes an additional service and is subject to the
payment of fees as established in Vol. I, Article 4-4: Development
Services Fees. Projects with revisions or addenda that increase the
scope of work, as determined by the Building and Safety Manager, may be
subject to a complete recalculation of fees or to obtaining an entirely
new permit.

      (3)   Staged approval. The project owner shall determine if the
project is to be constructed under 1 permit for the entire project or
under a series of permits (stages) for the project. The Building and
Safety Manager is authorized to issue any number of separate permits for
the construction of the site work, underground utilities, buildings and
structures needed to complete the whole project in accordance with
pertinent requirements of this chapter and the Technical Codes. The
holder of a permit for the construction of any portion of a project
shall proceed with the construction operation at the permit holder’s own
risk and without assurance that additional permits will be granted.
Choosing to build in more than 1 stage will not result in a fee premium.

      (4)   Phased approval.

         (a)   The project owner shall determine if the building or
structure is to be constructed under 1 permit for the entire project or
under a series of permits (phases) of the building. The Building and
Safety Manager is authorized to issue separate permits for the
construction of the building’s shell and any number of tenant completion
permits needed to complete the whole building in accordance with
pertinent requirements of this chapter and the Technical Codes. The
holder of a permit for the shell or other parts of a building or
structure shall proceed with the construction operation at the permit
holder’s own risk and without assurance that additional permits will be
granted. (See division (O)(5) below for foundation permits).

         (b)   Choosing to build in more than 1 phase will result in an
increase in the fees charged as established in the latest edition of
Vol. I, Article 4-4: Development Services Fees. A building constructed
under a phased approach is not permitted to be occupied until all of the
phases for the building, or portion thereof, have been successfully
completed. A shell is an incomplete building and cannot be safely
occupied.

      (5)   Foundation permits. The Building and Safety Manager is
authorized to issue a permit for the construction of foundations or any
other part of a building or structure before the construction documents
for the whole building or structure have been submitted or approved,
provided adequate information and detailed statements have been filed
complying with pertinent requirements of this chapter, the Technical
Codes and the Apache Junction Zoning Code. The holder of a permit for
the foundation or other parts of a building or structure shall proceed
with the construction operation at the holder’s own risk and without
assurance that a permit for the entire structure will be granted. The
granting of foundation permits is a special service that will result in
an increase in the fees charged as established in Vol. I, Article 4-4:
Development Services Fees.

      (6)   Electrical service permits. Permit applications to replace,
change, relocate, upgrade or increase electrical services must be
accompanied by the Salt River Project design plans. The Building and
Safety Manager is authorized to establish a policy regarding what
permits require submittal and review and what permits may be issued at
permit application.

      (7)   Expedited plan review. The Building and Safety Manager is
authorized to develop a policy for expedited plan review.

   (P)   Validity of permit. The issuance or granting of a permit shall
not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, the Technical Codes, or of any
other ordinance of the jurisdiction. Permits presuming to give authority
to violate or cancel the provisions of this chapter, the Technical
Codes, or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. The
issuance of a permit based on construction documents and other data
shall not prevent the Building and Safety Manager from requiring the
correction of errors in the permit documents or in the construction. The
Building and Safety Manager is also authorized to prevent occupancy or
use of a structure where in violation of this chapter, the Technical
Codes, or of any other ordinances of this jurisdiction. Work shall be
installed in accordance with the approved construction documents, and
any changes made during construction that are not in compliance with the
approved construction documents shall be resubmitted for approval as an
addendum to the released construction documents.

   (Q)   Compliance with other city code provisions. Building permits
for construction of residences in new subdivisions shall not be issued
until installation of all utilities, streets and other offsite
improvements have been completed and accepted by the city, except in
those instances where the Building and Safety Manager, determines that
phasing of utilities, streets and other selected offsite improvements
are acceptable. When such phasing is desired, the utilities, streets,
and other offsite improvements to be phased shall be approved in
accordance with all city-adopted codes and ordinances.

   (R)   Expiration of permit. Every permit issued shall become invalid
(null and void) unless the work on the site authorized by such permit is
commenced and pursued diligently as determined by these sections:

      (1)   An issued permit that has no approved inspections by the
number of elapsed calendar days indicated in the table below shall
become expired and will be voided. The Building and Safety Manager shall
order any work done to be removed and the property restored to original
condition or a condition approved the Development Services Engineer.

      (2)   For a permit that has an approved inspection the permit will
expire if no approved inspection occurs within the elapsed calendar days
indicated in the table below after the last approved inspection.

 

Expiration Time Frames: No approved inspections after issuances, or
between approved inspections

Type of Permit

Days to Expiration

Electrical, Mechanical/Fuel Gas, Plumbing and Demolition

45 days

Park Model, Manufactured Home, Factory Built Building, Residential
Accessory Structures and Residential Pools

60 days

1- and 2-Family Residential

120 days

Commercial (Industrial)

180 days

 

   (S)   Permit extensions. When requested by the permit holder, prior
to expiration of the permit, the Building and Safety Manager is
authorized to grant 2 extensions of time, for periods not more than
those noted in the table for expiration. The extension shall be
requested in writing with reasonable justifiable cause demonstrated.
Such extension, when granted, shall be in writing. If a permit that has
expired is renewed within 30 calendar days of expiration the cost will
be 50% of the original permit fee. After 30 days, but no more than 90
days after expiration, a permit can be reinstated at 100% of the
original fee. After 90 days a new permit must be applied for and
obtained to continue a project. Work where a permit has been expired
more 180 days shall be declared unsafe by the Building and Safety
Manager and action taken on unsafe buildings per Vol. I, § 7-1-9.

   (T)   Refunds. Refunds, if applicable, shall be in accordance with
Vol. I, Article 4-4: Development Services Fees.

   (U)   Suspension or revocation. The Building and Safety Manager is
authorized to suspend or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of
this chapter wherever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of
incorrect, inaccurate, or incomplete information, or in violation of any
ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this chapter, the
Technical Codes, or of any other ordinances of this jurisdiction. The
Building and Safety Manager is authorized to suspend or revoke a permit
issued under the provisions of this chapter wherever the work under the
permit is being performed in violation of the reviewed plans or in
violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of
this chapter, the Technical Codes, or of any other ordinances of this
jurisdiction.

   (V)   Placement of permit. The building permit or copy thereof shall
be kept on the site of the work until the completion of the project.

   (W)   Responsibility. It shall be the duty of every person who
performs work for the installation or repair of building, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing systems, for which this chapter
or the Technical Codes are applicable, to comply with this chapter and
the Technical Codes.

   (X)   Bulk permit program. The Building and Safety Manager is
authorized to develop a bulk permit program for residential related
trade permits, not requiring a utility release, and other permits
covering work of a limited or minor nature. The program will set the
number of projects/locations a permit can cover and will establish a
method for compliance verification that reduces the need for scheduled
inspections. The program will be available for licensed contractors and
will set the minimum requirements for contractors to qualify for the
program. The intent of the program is ease and efficiency for the
contractors, reduced burden on homeowner’s time for work and
inspections, and provide better records and tracking of improvements
made to the city housing stock.

   (Y)   Permit-by-inspection (PBI) program. The Building and Safety
Manager may establish a permit-by-inspection (PBI) program that is a
voluntary alternative to the standard permit application, plan review
and permit issuance process for simple projects of certain occupancies
and degree of complexity.

      (1)   Eligible projects. Projects eligible for consideration under
the PBI program shall comply with all of the following limitations:

         (a)   Project must be a tenant improvement or tenant completion
project for a Group B (Business), or a Group M (Mercantile) in an
existing space or building;

         (b)   Project cannot involve a change of occupancy, except
changes between Group B and Group M occupancies;

         (c)   Area of tenant space or building cannot exceed 5,000
square feet in floor area;

         (d)   The project cannot involve high piled storage or
hazardous materials, nor substantial rework of the plumbing, mechanical,
electrical or fire suppression system;

         (e)   The project cannot require additional zoning approvals;
and

         (f)   The work cannot have been subject to a stop work order.
Projects shall comply with all other requirements of this chapter.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-1-7 INSPECTIONS.

   (A)   General.

      (1)   Construction or work for which a permit is required shall be
subject to inspection by the Building and Safety Manager and such
construction or work shall remain accessible and exposed for inspection
purposes until approved. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not
be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this
chapter, the Technical Codes, or of other ordinances of the
jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or
cancel the provisions of this chapter or the Technical Codes or of other
ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. It shall be the duty
of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain accessible and
exposed for inspection purposes. Neither the Building and Safety Manager
nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal
or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.

      (2)   The Building and Safety Manager is authorized to create a
“concealed construction verification” policy for addressing concealed
construction due to work done without permits or work pursued without
having or passing required inspections.

         (a)   Site address. It shall be the duty of the permit holder
to post the approved property address, including number and street name,
at all construction sites. Such temporary premises identification shall
be clearly visible from the street or roadway fronting the property,
shall be installed prior to the first inspection, and shall be
maintained until the permanent premises identification is installed and
approved.

         (b)   Inspections requests. It shall be the duty of the holder
of the building permit or their duly authorized agent to notify the
Building and Safety Manager when work is ready for inspection. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to, and means for
inspections of such work, as required by this chapter.

         (c)   Survey. Where inspection reveals that a structure may not
be located according to approved plans, or which in drainage is not
reasonably provided for, the Building and Safety Manager shall require a
survey (at the expense of the applicant) of the lot and structure to
verify that the structure is located in accordance with approved plans.

   (B)   Required inspections. The required inspections for a permitted
project will be determined at plan review based on the proposed work.
The permit holder or the inspector may ask for or require additional
inspections based on project conditions and needs. The Building and
Safety Manager, upon notification, shall make the inspections set forth
in this section.

      (1)   Footing inspection. Footing inspections shall be made after
excavations for footings are complete and any required reinforcing steel
and forms are in place. Inspection shall be made prior to the placement
of concrete. Materials for the footer shall be on the site, except where
concrete is ready mixed in accordance with ASTM C94/C94M-15a:
Specification for Ready-mixed Concrete, the concrete need not be on the
site.

      (2)   Underground MEP Inspection. Where mechanical, electrical or
plumbing (MEP), ducts, conduit, pipes, and the like, are to be placed
below a slab, or underground, an underground MEP inspection shall be
made after trenches or ditches are excavated and bedded, ducts, conduit
and piping are installed and before any backfill is placed. Plumbing
drain lines shall be on a water test with a minimum of 10-foot head of
water. Plastic piping shall not be tested with air.

      (3)   Lowest floor elevation inspection. For concrete slabs being
poured in flood hazard areas the second elevation certificate showing
that the top of the forms and the proposed top of the floor elevation
complies with that proposed in the first elevation certificate shall be
submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain Manager/City Engineer
before the concrete slab inspection is requested. For framed floor
systems the second elevation certificate shall be submitted to, and
approved by the Floodplain Manager/City Engineer prior to further
vertical construction.

      (4)   Utility connection inspection. An inspection is required of
the connection of the building plumbing to the water service and sewer
service prior to backfilling the trenches.

      (5)   Concrete slab and post-tension slab inspection. For concrete
foundations, such as monolithic slabs and post tension slabs, the
required forms, reinforcing steel or post-tension cables, and the
required anchors and holddowns shall be in place at the inspection.
Backfill of MEP shall be complete, any required box outs in place, and
any thickened footings shall be per permitted plans. Inspection shall be
made prior to the placement of concrete. For post-tension slabs, the
inspection report from the post-tension special inspection shall be
provided to the Building and Safety Manager before concrete is poured.
Materials for the foundation shall be on the site, except where concrete
is ready mixed in accordance with ASTM C94/C94M-15a: Specification for
Ready-mixed Concrete, the concrete need not be on the site.

      (6)   Braced/shear wall and load transfer inspection. For
residential 1-and 2-family and commercial wood framed structures, a
braced wall inspection shall occur prior to the installation of the air
barrier, house wrap or weather barrier. The inspection will also look at
the required load transfer connections between the floor (if framed),
wall and roof diaphragms. For flat roof systems the roof deck nailing
will be inspected and OSHA compliant access shall be provided by the
permit holder. Where interior gypsum board is utilized as part of the
braced wall system, a gypsum board inspection, as noted below, shall be
required.

      (7)   Pre-stucco inspection. An inspection of the installed
weather-resistant barrier, continuous insulation, lathe or wire support
and weep screed installation is required prior to installing stucco,
1-coat or exterior insulation and finish systems (“EIFS”) finishes.

      (8)   Masonry wall grout inspections. Masonry wall grout
inspections shall occur as denoted in the permitted plans regarding
grout pour maximum height.

      (9)   Rough-inspection residential. The residential rough
inspection shall not occur until the structure framing is complete and
weather-tight - weather-resistant barrier and windows at walls and felt
on sloped roofs and weather barrier on flat roofs. The rough inspection
shall cover rough framing, building envelope energy requirements, rough
plumbing, rough mechanical and fuel gas, and rough electrical. Rough
inspection of these areas/systems shall be made prior to covering or
concealment and before fixtures or appliances have been set or
installed, and after the roof is loaded with roof covering material.
Tubs, tub/shower units, shower units, site built shower receptors and
gas log fireplaces shall be installed at time of the rough inspection.

      (10)   Rough-inspection commercial. Commercial rough inspections
of framing, energy elements, mechanical, electrical, plumbing and gas
systems shall be made as needed prior to the concealment of any elements
or systems. For large projects standing inspection times or inspection
frequency may be arranged between the superintendent or trade foreman,
and the building inspector.

      (11)   Insulation inspection. The insulation inspection shall
verify compliance with the permitted plans regarding the types of
insulation and R-values installed and use of proper installation
methods. Blown-in attic insulation will be checked at final inspection.

      (12)   Gypsum board inspection. Gypsum board inspection is
required where the gypsum or lathe is indicated on permitted plans as
part of the braced-wall system or shear wall design, or when gypsum and
lathe are a part of a fire-resistance-rated assembly and shall be made
after lathing and gypsum board, interior and exterior, is in place, but
before any plastering is applied or gypsum board joints and fasteners
are taped and finished.

      (13)   Fire-resistant assemblies and penetrations. Protection of
joints and penetrations in fire-resistance-rated assemblies shall not be
concealed from view until inspected and approved.

      (14)   Other inspections. In addition to the inspections specified
above, the Building and Safety Manager is authorized to make or require
other inspections of any construction work to ascertain compliance with
the provisions of this chapter or the Technical Codes and other laws
enforced by the Building Safety Division.

         (a)   Roofing inspections. Roofing inspections are required on
existing residential as follows:

            1.   Where more than 96 square feet of roof decking is to be
replaced or covered a decking inspection is required prior to
installation of the underlayment.

            2.   Where the roof slope is less than 4:12 an inspection of
the required 2 layers of underlayment is required.

            3.   A final inspection of the installation is required
during roof covering installation to verify compliance with
manufacturer’s installation requirements and code compliance.

         (b)   Demolition inspection. After demolition is complete and
the site restored to a clean condition a final inspection is required.

      (15)   Special inspections. Special inspections and structural
observations shall be as required in Chapter 17 of the Building Code
(Vol. I, Article 7-2).

      (16)   Final inspection.

         (a)   Residential final inspection. The residential final
inspection shall be made after all work included on the permitted plans
and required by the building permit is completed. This includes all
exterior finishes, protection of all non-treated or non-durable wood
species, the final grading around the structures a dust proof driveway,
required house numbers and all exterior light fixtures. Electrical power
and water must be on for the final inspection.

         (b)   Commercial final inspection. A commercial final
inspection is required prior to the issuance of a certificate of
completion, a certificate of occupancy or a temporary certificate of
occupancy. A commercial final inspection does not grant occupancy. For
occupancy of new construction or new tenant spaces, see Vol. I, §
7-1-8(B). A commercial final inspection requires that all exterior work
be complete, including all exterior finishes, protection of all
non-treated or non-durable wood species, roof drainage, exterior
lighting, all utilities are on and cleared by the utility, all required
accessibility features are installed and accessibility requirements are
met.

   (C)   Building service equipment and trade inspections, and utility
clearances. If, upon final electrical service or final gas piping
inspection, the installation is found to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and the Technical Codes, a “utility clearance” shall be
issued by the Building and Safety Manager to the respective energy
utility. It shall be unlawful for any serving energy utility, or person
furnishing fuel, to energize or supply fuel until such “utility
clearance” has been issued.

      (1)   Building service equipment inspections. The Building and
Safety Manager shall inspect building service equipment for which a
permit is required by this chapter or the Technical Codes. Building
service equipment intended to be concealed by a permanent portion of the
building shall not be concealed until inspected and approved. When the
installation of building service equipment is complete, an additional
and final inspection shall be made. Building service equipment regulated
by the Technical Codes shall not be connected to the water, fuel, or
power supply, or sewer system until authorized by the Building and
Safety Manager. The requirements of this chapter shall not be considered
as prohibiting the operation of building service equipment installed to
replace existing building service equipment serving an occupied portion
of the building provided an inspection of such building service
equipment has been completed and approved.

      (2)   Electrical trade inspections. Inspections of electrical work
to replace, change, relocate, upgrade or increase electrical services
shall be made by the Building and Safety Manager. No inspections of
energized electrical services will be made without the express
permission of the Building and Safety Manager.

      (3)   Mechanical and fuel gas trade inspections. The Building and
Safety Manager shall require the inspection of residential and
commercial HVAC new installations, replacements, or unit upgrades to
verify proper installation and mounting, energy code compliance and duct
detector compliance. New installation, replacement or expansion of fuel
gas shall be inspected, under air test, and approved prior to the city
issuing a “clearance” to the service provider to reconnect or restart
service.

      (4)   Plumbing trade inspections. The Building and Safety Manager
shall require inspections for septic abandonment, new sewer connection,
water re-pipes, water heater installation where the energy source has
changed, used cooking oil/grease collection systems, CO2 tanks and
piping, interceptor installation-grease, lint, oil or other, bathroom
remodels requiring permits, and roof-mounted solar water heating
systems.

   (D)   Inspection agencies. The Building and Safety Manager is
authorized to accept reports of approved inspection agencies, provided
such agencies satisfy the requirements as to qualifications and
reliability.

   (E)   Approval required. Work shall not be done beyond the point
indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the
approval of the Building and Safety Manager. The Building and Safety
Manager, upon notification, shall make the requested inspections and
shall either indicate the portion of the construction is satisfactory as
completed, or notify the permit holder or authorized representative
wherein the same fails to comply with this chapter or the Technical
Codes. Portions not complying shall be corrected and shall not be
covered or concealed until authorized by the Building and Safety
Manager. Projects with failed inspections may be subjected to additional
fees in accordance with Vol. I, Article 4-4: Development Services Fees.
There shall be final inspection and approval of all construction when
the work is completed and prior to any occupancy or use.

   (F)   Tests. Whenever insufficient evidence of compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or the Technical Codes, or evidence that
materials or construction do not conform to the requirements of the
Technical Codes, the Building and Safety Manager may require tests as
evidence of compliance to be made at no expense to the city. Test
methods shall be as specified by the Technical Codes or by other
recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted
test methods, the Building and Safety Manager shall determine test
procedures. Said tests shall be made by an approved agency. Reports of
test results shall be submitted to the Building and Safety Manager for
approval and shall be retained by the Building Safety Division as
required in the approved records retention schedule.

   (G)   Connection to utilities. Persons shall not make connections
from a source of energy, fuel, or power to building service equipment,
regulated by the Technical Codes and for which a permit is required by
this chapter, until approved by the Building and Safety Manager. The
Building and Safety Manager may authorize the temporary connection of
the building service equipment to the source of energy, fuel, or power
for testing building service equipment or for use under a temporary
certificate of occupancy. The Building and Safety Manager may also
authorize the connection of the building electrical service equipment to
supply construction power. Such authorizations shall be conditioned upon
the owner or permit holder prohibiting the use of gas-fired generators
on the site once the permanent power is operational, except as approved
by the Building and Safety Manager. The use and safe maintenance of the
building electrical service equipment during construction shall comply
with all applicable local, state and federal regulations. The Building
and Safety Manager may order the disconnection of any service not used
or maintained safely, or operated in violation of this chapter.

   (H)   Inspection by video or photography. The Building and Safety
Manager is authorized to develop policies and programs for utilizing
technology to offer options for code compliance verification. The policy
and program will set the requirements for training and participation in
the program and penalties for violating terms of the program.

(Ord. 1478, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-1-8 CERTIFICATES.

   (A)   Use and occupancy. No building or structure shall be used or
occupied, and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a
building or structure or portion thereof shall be made until the
Building and Safety Manager has issued a certificate of occupancy or
other form of authorization therefore as provided herein. Issuance of a
certificate of occupancy, or other form of authorization, shall not be
construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this
chapter, the Technical Codes, or other ordinances of the jurisdiction.

   (B)   Certificate types and processes.

      (1)   (a)   Certificate of occupancy. Provided for new commercial
projects, tenant improvements and change in use (not including shell
building construction) once construction is substantially complete and
in compliance with applicable Technical Codes, ordinances. The Division
of Building Safety and Inspection cannot issue a certificate of
occupancy until approval or authorization has been communicated to the
Division from the following, as applicable to the project:

            1.   Division of Planning and Zoning- Planner: compliance of
site, exterior elevations, signage and landscaping with approved plans;

            2.   Division of Planning and Zoning- Development Services
Engineer: as-built site engineering, compliance with all on-site
improvements;

            3.   Department of Public Works- Inspector: final approval
of all offsite improvements;

            4.   Department of Public Works- City Engineer: receipt and
approval of final elevation certificate for work occurring in the
floodplain.

            5.   Superstition Fire and Medical District- Fire Marshal:
compliance with approved fire plans, sprinkler plans, fire alarm plans
and required testing. This includes but is not limited to, fire safety
plans and emergency preparedness, fire service features and access, and
fire protection systems; automatic sprinkler systems, standpipe systems,
fire alarm/detection systems, and smoke control systems.

            6.   Superstition Mountains Communities Facilities District
No. 1: final inspection, sewer connection approval and start of service;
and

            7.   Apache Junction Water District/Arizona Water Company:
final inspection, water connection approval and start of service
(domestic and fire).

         (b)   After the Division of Building Safety and Inspection has
confirmed approval by all required divisions and agencies, and has
completed a final inspection with no outstanding issues, a certificate
of occupancy will be issued. The certificate of occupancy will contain
the following:

            1.   The building permit number.

            2.   The address of the structure and the parcel number.

            3.   A description of the portion of the structure for which
the certificate is issued.

            4.   A statement that the described portion of the structure
has been inspected for compliance with the requirements of this chapter
and the Technical Codes for the occupancy and division of occupancy and
the use for which the proposed occupancy is classified.

            5.   The name and signature of the Building and Safety
Manager or designee.

            6.   The edition of the codes under which the permit was
issued.

            7.   The occupancy, in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.

            8.   The type of construction as defined in this chapter.

            9.   The design occupant load.

            10.   If an automatic fire suppression system is provided.

            11.   Any special stipulations and conditions of the
building permit.

         (c)   The original of the certificate of occupancy issued at
time of approval is included in the cost of the permit. Additional
duplicate copies or replacement copies shall be provided for a fee as
established in Vol. I, Chapter 4: Fees, Article 4-4: Development
Services Fees. The Building and Safety Manager may require an inspection
of an existing building prior to issuing a duplicate certificate of
occupancy for any building more than 1 year after the issuance of the
original certificate of occupancy.

         (d)   A certificate of occupancy shall be provided for a
partial occupancy approval by the Building and Safety Manager when
requested by the permit holder. Such certificate shall clearly identify
the portion or portions of the building that are approved for final
occupancy. There shall be no additional fee for a partial certificate of
occupancy for the occupancy of a tenant space in a shell building issued
at the completion of the tenant improvement permit.

      (2)   Certificate of completion commercial. Provided for
commercial shell buildings once construction of the shell is
substantially complete per approved plans and in compliance with
applicable codes, ordinances, and the like. Such certificate of
completion certifies that the work to be performed under the permit has
been satisfactorily completed. The certificate of completion does not
authorize the occupancy of an incomplete shell, building or structure.
The certificate of completion shall contain the following:

         (a)   The building permit number.

         (b)   The address of the structure.

         (c)   The name and address of the owner.

         (d)   A description of the permitted work for which the
certificate is issued.

         (e)   A statement that the permitted work has been inspected
for compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the Technical
Codes.

         (f)   The name and signature of the Building and Safety Manager
or designee.

         (g)   The edition of the code under which the permit was
issued.

         (h)   Any special stipulations and conditions of the permit.

      (3)   Certificate of completion residential. Provided for 1-and
2-family residential homes and townhomes after a final inspection
determines construction is substantially complete and in compliance with
permitted plans, applicable codes, ordinances, and the like.

      (4)   Certificate of installation. When requested a certificate of
completion can be issued for the installation of a manufactured home
after a final inspection has found all installation and code
requirements have been met including, skirting, landings, exterior
stairs, grading, and the like.

   (C)   Temporary certificate of occupancy. The Building and Safety
Manager is authorized to issue a temporary certificate of occupancy
before the completion of the entire work covered by the permit, provided
that such portion or portions shall be occupied safely and approval or
authorization for temporary occupancy has been communicated to the
Division from other agencies as noted in division (B)(1) above. The
Building and Safety Manager shall set the time period during which the
temporary certificate of occupancy is valid and the conditions, if any,
for such temporary occupancy. A temporary certificate of occupancy can
be issued for up to 30 calendar days and can only be renewed 2 times at
30 calendar days per renewal period. Any use of a partially constructed
building or structure, except for construction purposes, shall
constitute occupancy that requires prior approval of the Building and
Safety Manager. Each such subsequent use shall require separate
approvals.

   (D)   Revocation. The Building and Safety Manager is authorized to
suspend or revoke, in writing, a certificate of occupancy, certificate
of completion, or temporary certificate of occupancy issued under the
provisions of this chapter wherever such certificate is issued in error,
or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or where it is
determined the building or structure or portion thereof is in violation
of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this chapter
or the Technical Codes.

   (E)   Posting. The certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate
of occupancy shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises and
shall not be removed except by the Building and Safety Manager.

(Ord. 1478, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-1-9 UNSAFE BUILDING OR UNSAFE PROPERTY.

   (A)   Conditions.

      (1)   Buildings, structures, property or existing building service
equipment that are or hereafter become unsafe, unsanitary, or deficient
because of inadequate means of egress facilities, inadequate light and
ventilation, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise
dangerous to human life or the public welfare, or that involve illegal
or improper occupancy, or inadequate maintenance, or are deemed a public
nuisance, shall be deemed an unsafe condition. A vacant or abandoned
structure that is not secured against entry shall be deemed an unsafe
condition. Unsafe conditions shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition or removal, or made safe, as the Building and Safety Manager
deems necessary and as provided in this chapter.

      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, a building, structure,
property or building service equipment having any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an
“unsafe building” and/or an “unsafe property”, provided such conditions
or defects exist to the extent the life, health, property, or safety of
the public or its occupants are endangered:

         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, or other
means of exit is not of sufficient width or size, is blocked partially
or completely, or is arranged so as to not provide safe and adequate
means of exit in case of fire or panic. Where an egress door or gate
does not operate correctly, requires excessive force to open or has
defective hardware it is an unsafe condition.

         (b)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway,
stairway, or other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn,
creates a tripping hazard, or otherwise unsafe as to not provide safe
and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.

         (c)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion
thereof, due to all dead and live loads, is more than 1-1/2 times the
working stress or stresses allowed in the Building Code for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location. Evidence of excess
deflection, 1.5 times that allowed in the Building Code, or evidence of
dislocation greater than 1/4-inch require evaluation by a structural
engineer hired by the owner. The structural engineer’s report shall be
submitted to the Building and Safety Manager and shall establish that
the condition is safe, or provide specific directions for correction to
meet the minimum requirements of the Building Code.

         (d)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood, or by any other cause to such an extent the
structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was
before such catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of
Building Code, as appropriate, for new buildings of similar structure,
purpose, or location.

         (e)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is
likely to fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and
thereby injure persons or damage properties.

         (f)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member,
appurtenance, or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of
sufficient strength or stability, or is not so anchored, attached, or
fastened in place so as to be capable of resisting a wind pressure of
1/2 of that specified in the Building Code, as appropriate, for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding
the working stresses permitted in the Building Code, as appropriate, for
such buildings.

         (g)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped,
buckled, or settled to such an extent that walls or other structural
portions have materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is
required in the case of similar new construction.

         (h)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, because of:

            1.   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;

            2.   Faulty construction;

            3.   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of
the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;

            4.   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its
foundation; or

            5.   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely
collapse.

         (i)   Whenever, for any reason, the building, structure or
building service equipment, or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe
for the purpose for which it is being used.

         (j)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural
members list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passed
through the center of gravity does not fall inside the middle 1/3 of the
base.

         (k)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the
foundation, shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting
member or members, or 50% damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting
members, enclosing or outside walls, or coverings.

         (l)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by
fire, wind, earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or
deteriorated as to be:

            1.   An attractive nuisance to children;

            2.   Refuge for trespassers, illicit drug users, or others
engaged in illegal activity; or

            3.   A blighting influence on a neighborhood or area.

         (m)   Whenever any building, structure, property or building
service equipment has been constructed, exists, is modified, or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirements or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building
regulations of this jurisdiction, as specified in the Building Code.

         (n)   Whenever any building or structure, whether or not
erected in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in
any nonsupporting part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any
supporting part, member, or portion less than 66% of the:

            1.   Strength,

            2.   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics, or

            3.   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required
by law in the case of a newly constructed building of the like area,
height, and occupancy in the same location.

         (o)   Whenever a building, structure or property, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty construction or
arrangement, inadequate light, air, or sanitation facilities, or
otherwise, is determined by the Building and Safety Manager to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease.

         (p)   Whenever any building, structure, property or building
service equipment, because of obsolescence, dilapidated condition,
deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of sufficient
fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connection or
heating apparatus, illegal modification, or other cause, is determined
by the Building and Safety Manager or Fire Marshal to be a fire hazard.

         (q)   Whenever any building, structure or property, is in such
a condition as to constitute a public nuisance.

         (r)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains
on a site after the demolition or destruction of the building or
structure or whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a
period in excess of 180 calendar days so as to constitute such building
or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.

   (B)   Notice. If an unsafe condition, as described herein, is found,
the Building and Safety Manager shall serve on the owner, agent, and
person in control or possession of the structure, a written notice
describing the condition deemed unsafe and specifying the required
repairs or improvements to be made to abate the unsafe condition, or
requiring the unsafe structure to be demolished within a time specified
by the Building and Safety Manager. Such notice shall require the person
thus notified to declare as soon as possible but not later than 7 city
business days to the Building and Safety Manager the acceptance or
rejection of the terms of the order.

   (C)   Method of service.

      (1)   Such notice shall be deemed properly served if a copy
thereof is:

         (a)   Delivered to the owner or agent personally; or

         (b)   Sent by certified or registered mail addressed to the
owner at the last known address as identified in county tax records,
with return receipt requested; or

         (c)   Served in any manner permitted by state statute or by the
Arizona Rules of Civil Procedure for service of process.

      (2)   Service shall first be attempted through personal service.
If the city is unable to personally serve the notice, other methods of
service may be utilized and the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in or about the structure affected by such notice. Service of such
notice in the foregoing manner upon the owner's agent or upon the person
responsible for the structure shall constitute service of notice upon
the owner.

   (D)   Procedures. The Building and Safety Manager shall establish the
necessary procedures to be utilized in the enforcement of this section.
Such procedures shall be consistent with the requirements of this
section and, if necessary, shall be enacted by resolution of the Apache
Junction City Council.

   (E)   Hazard marking system. The Building and Safety Manager, with
the approval of the Fire Chief, is authorized to establish a hazard
identification marking system to provide firefighters responding to a
fire or other emergency with a visual identification marking that the
property is vacant, abandoned, or contains hazards to firefighters.

   (F)   Restoration. The building, structure, property or building
service equipment determined to be unsafe shall be permitted to be
restored to a safe condition. To the extent repairs, alterations, or
additions are made or a change of occupancy occurs during the
restoration of the structure, such repairs, alterations, additions, or
change of occupancy shall comply with the requirements of this chapter
and the Technical Codes, or the building or structure shall be
demolished and the site cleaned.

   (G)   Emergency repairs. In the event the property owner fails to
take needed corrective action in the manner and time as acceptable to
the Building and Safety Manager, the Building and Safety Manager is
authorized to employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the
required work as expeditiously as possible. Costs incurred in the
performance of the emergency work shall be paid by the City of Apache
Junction and the city may file an action to recover all fees and costs
related to the emergency repairs.

   (H)   Demolition.

      (1)   The Building and Safety Manager shall order the owner of any
premises upon which is located any structure that in the Building and
Safety Manager’s judgment is so dilapidated, or has become so out of
repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise unfit for
human habitation or occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to
repair the structure, to demolish and remove such structure; or if such
structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, to repair and make
safe and sanitary or to demolish and remove at the owner’s option; or
where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any structure
for a period of more than 730 calendar days, to demolish and remove such
structure.

      (2)   If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a demolition
order within the time prescribed, the Building and Safety Manager shall
cause the structure to be demolished and removed, either through an
available public agency or by contract or arrangement with private
persons, and the cost of such demolition and removal shall be charged
against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall be
a lien upon such real estate.

   (I)   Record. The Building and Safety Manager shall cause a report to
be filed on an unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy of
the structure and the nature of the unsafe condition.

   (J)   Appeal of notice to abate, notice to secure, and notice of
intent to demolish. An appeal of a notice to abate, notice to secure and
notice of intent to demolish shall be filed in writing with the
Development Services Department Director or his or her designee within
20 calendar days after the notice was served. An appellate hearing shall
be scheduled by the Building and Safety Manager or his or her designee
before the Development Services Director no later than 60 calendar days
after the notice of appeal has been filed and such hearing must have
been held and be concluded within the same time period.

   (K)   Grounds for appeal.

      (1)   The following are appropriate grounds for an appeal:

         (a)   The claim that the property or building subject to the
notice is not in violation under the code.

         (b)   A claim that the true intent of the code has been
incorrectly interpreted.

         (c)   A claim that the statement for costs for correcting or
abating the violation is excessive.

      (2)   The Director may affirm, reverse or modify the notice. The
Director shall conduct the hearing as a quasi-judicial hearing. There
shall be no fee for filing an appeal with the Director.

      (3)   The filing of the notice of appeal shall act as an automatic
stay of enforcement of any compliance deadlines until the Director makes
its final determination. Upon making its final determination and after
it has been served on the appellant, the stay terminates and the
violator has the balance of the time left set forth in the notice.
Failure to comply within this time period may result in the issuance of
a civil or criminal citation or the filing of a complaint and abatement
procedures subjecting the property owner and/or responsible party to
liens and possible foreclosure.

      (4)   Failure of a person to file an appeal shall constitute a
waiver of the right to a hearing of the appeal before the Director and
such person shall be estopped to deny the validity of any order or
action of the city which could have been timely appealed.

      (5)   Once the Director has rendered its decision, a party may
apply to the Superior Court within 30 calendar days for further
appellate relief in accordance with the Arizona Rules of Procedure for
Special Actions. The filing of a special action will not stay
enforcement of any notice unless ordered by a court of competent
jurisdiction.

(Ord. 1478, passed 6-19-2019; Am. Ord. 1485, passed 3-3-2020)

§ 7-1-10 PENALTIES.

   (A)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful:

      (1)   For any owner, person, firm, or corporation to erect,
construct, alter, extend, repair, move, remove, demolish, or operate,
any building, structure, or equipment regulated by this chapter, or
cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter and the Technical Codes.

      (2)   For any owner, person, firm, or corporation to occupy, or
for any owner to allow occupancy or fail to prevent occupancy of, any
building or structure regulated by this chapter, or cause same to be
done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter and the Technical Codes.

      (3)   For an owner, person, firm, or corporation to fail to comply
with a lawful written notice of violation or order to discontinue and
abate a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter and the
Technical Codes.

      (4)   For an owner, person, firm or corporation to maintain an
unsafe building in violation of this chapter.

   (B)   Notice of violation. The Building and Safety Manager is
authorized to serve a notice of violation or order on the person
responsible for the erection, construction, alteration, extension,
repair, moving, removal, demolition, or occupancy of a building or
structure in violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Technical
Codes, or in violation of a permit or certificate issued under the
provisions of this chapter. Such order shall direct the discontinuance
of the illegal action or condition and the abatement of the violation.

   (C)   Prosecution of violation. If the notice of violation is not
complied with in the time frame specified in the notice, the city may
institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain,
correct, or abate such violation, or to require the removal or
termination of the unlawful occupancy of the building or structure in
violation of the provisions of this chapter or of the Technical Codes or
of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.

   (D)   Remedies not exclusive. Violations of this chapter or the
Technical Codes are in addition to any other violation established by
law, and this chapter shall not be interpreted as limiting the
penalties, actions, or abatement procedures that may be taken by the
city or other persons under the laws, ordinances, or rules.

   (E)   Penalty clause. Any owner, person, firm, or corporation who
shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter of the Apache
Junction City Code, as amended, shall be guilty of a Class One
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $2,500, by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 6 months, or
other probation terms, and probation of up to 36 months and any
community service or community restriction, as the court deems
necessary. Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate
offense punishable as described above.

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1478, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-1-11 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOME, MOBILE HOME, PARK
MODEL, AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STANDARDS.

   (A)   Definitions. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings as shown in this chapter.

      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. As it pertains to manufactured homes and
mobile homes, the installation, assembly, connection or construction of
any 1-story habitable room, storage room, patio, porch, garage, carport,
awning, skirting, retaining wall, evaporative cooler, refrigeration air
conditioning system, solar system or wood decking attached to a new or
used manufactured home, mobile home or residential single-family
factory-built building.

      ALTERATION. Any construction, renovation or reconfiguration of
space, the addition or elimination of any door or window, the
reconfiguration or extension of any system, or the installation of any
additional equipment to an existing mobile home, manufactured home, park
model or recreational vehicle other than a repair or addition.

      CERTIFICATE. An Arizona Insignia of Approval, which is required
for modular manufacture, installation, reconstruction, or rehabilitation
work. Or a numbered or serialized label or seal that is issued by the
Director (Director of Arizona Department of Housing) as certification of
compliance with this chapter.

      DETACHED. For purposes of this article, DETACHED means
structurally independent from an adjacent structure, including vertical
(gravity and uplift) loads and horizontal (wind and seismic) loads.

      MANUFACTURED HOME (“MH”). A structure built in accordance with the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5401-5426) and Title VI of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 and the Manufactured Housing Improvement Act of
2000, which is Title VI of the American Homeownership and Economic
Opportunity Act of 2000.

      MOBILE HOME. A structure built before June 15, 1976, on a
permanent chassis, with a minimum of 400 square feet, capable of being
transported in 1 or more sections and designed to be used with or
without a permanent foundation as a dwelling when connected to on-site
utilities. MOBILE HOME does not include recreational vehicles and
factory-built buildings.

      MOTOR HOME. A motor vehicle that is designed as temporary living
quarters and that:

         (a)   Is built onto as an integral part of, or is permanently
attached to, a motor vehicle chassis.

         (b)   Contains at least 4 of the following independent life
support systems if each is permanently installed, operable, and designed
to be removed only for purposes of repair or replacement:

            1.   A cooking facility with an onboard fuel source;

            2.   A gas or electric refrigerator;

            3.   A toilet with exterior evacuation;

            4.   A heating or air conditioning system with an onboard
power or fuel source separate from the vehicle engine;

            5.   A potable water supply system that includes at least a
sink, a faucet and a water tank with an exterior service supply
connection; and/or

            6.   A 110-125 volt electric power supply.

      PARK MODEL OR PARK TRAILER (“PM”). Also known as a RECREATIONAL
PARK TRAILER. A trailer-type RV that is designed to provide temporary,
seasonal accommodation, and is not intended as a permanent dwelling
unit. PM RVs are built on a single chassis, mounted on wheels and have a
gross trailer area not exceeding 400 square feet in the set -up mode.
They are certified by their manufacturers as complying with the current
versions of ANSI Al 19.5 Park Model Recreational Vehicle Standard or
NFPA 1192 Standard on Recreational Vehicles. PMs do not conform to the
standards for MHs, or the Technical Codes.

      PERMANENT DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit constructed under the
Apache Junction Building Code, the Apache Junction Residential Code, or
under the rules of the Arizona Department of Housing, Manufactured
Housing Division, Title 41, Chapter 37, Articles 2-5.

      PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A system of support, anchorage and perimeter
enclosure of crawl space that is:

         (a)   Constructed of durable materials (e.g., concrete,
masonry, steel, or treated wood);

         (b)   Developed in accordance with the manufacturer’s
installation instructions or designed by an Arizona registered
structural engineer;

         (c)   Attached in a manner that effectively transfers all
vertical and horizontal design loads that could be imposed on the
structure by wind, snow, frost, seismic, or flood conditions, as
applicable, to the underlying soil or rock;

         (d)   Designed to exclude unwanted elements and varmints,
ensure sufficient ventilation, and provide adequate access to the
building; and

         (e)   Not affixed with anchoring straps or cable to ground
anchors other than footings.

      RECONSTRUCTION. Construction work performed for the purpose of
restoration or modification of a MH unit by changing or adding
structural components or electrical, plumbing, or heat or air producing
systems.

      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (“RV”). A vehicular type unit that is any of
the following:

         (a)   A portable camping trailer mounted on wheels and
constructed with collapsible partial sidewalls that fold for towing by
another vehicle and unfold for camping.

         (b)   A motor home designed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel, use, and built on or
permanently attached to a self-propelled motor vehicle chassis or on a
chassis cab or van that is an integral part of the completed vehicle.

         (c)   A park trailer or PM built on a single chassis, mounted
on wheels, designed to provide temporary, seasonal living quarters for
recreation or camping and may be designed to be connected to utilities
necessary for operation of installed fixtures and appliances and has a
gross trailer area of not less than 320 square feet and not more than
400 square feet when it is set up, except that it does not include fifth
wheel trailers.

         (d)   A travel trailer mounted on wheels, designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel, use, and
of a size or weight that may or may not require special highway movement
permits when towed by a motorized vehicle and that has a trailer area of
less than 320 square feet. This subdivision includes fifth wheel
trailers. If a unit requires a size or weight permit, it shall be
manufactured to the standards for park trailers in section A 119.5 of
the American National Standards Institute Standard.

         (e)   A portable truck camper constructed to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel, use and consisting
of a roof, floor and sides designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from
the bed of a pickup truck.

      REHABILITATION. Work performed in accordance with the rules
adopted by the Arizona Department of Housing as referenced in A.R.S. §
41-4048C.

      REPAIR. Work performed on a MH, mobile home, or factory built
building to restore the building to a habitable condition but does not
impact the original structure, electrical, plumbing, heating ventilation
and air-conditioning, mechanical, use occupancy, or energy design.

      SITE WORK. Soil preparation including soil analysis, grading,
drainage, utility trenches, and foundation systems preparation, and
field-installed work including terminal and connections, on-site utility
connections, accessibility structures, egress paths, parking, lighting,
landscaping, and similar work.

      TRAVEL TRAILER. A travel trailer is a trailer-type RV that is
designed to provide temporary, seasonal accommodation, and is not
intended as a permanent dwelling unit. TRAVEL TRAILERS are built on a
single chassis, mounted on wheels and have a gross trailer area not
exceeding 400 square feet in the set -up mode. A TRAVEL TRAILER lacks
certification showing that they comply with any versions of ANSI Al 19.5
or NFPA 1192 Standards for Recreational Park Trailers.

   (B)   Manufactured homes. MH installation shall comply with the
requirements of A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 37, Article 3, §§ 41-4001 thru
41-4010, and Arizona Administrative Code, Title 4, Chapter 34, §§
R4-34-101 thru R4-34-805. The references identified in R4-34-102 shall
provide the code requirements for the installation of attached accessory
structures. Detached structures shall comply with the Technical Codes.
Reconstruction of a MH requires that plans for the reconstruction be
submitted and a permit issued.

      (1)   MH installation outside of a manufactured home park or
subdivision.

         (a)   Permits are required for all MHs and any additions
thereto, to be installed. MH installations on vacant lots zoned RS-7M,
RS-10M, RS-20M, RS-54M and RS-GR are limited to homes manufactured not
more than two years prior to the year in which the permit is requested.

         (b)   Where an existing MH or mobile home more than five years
old is being removed or demolished on a lot in zoning RS-7M, RS-10M,
RS-20M, RS-54M, and RS-GR a MH not more than five years old may be
installed on that lot in compliance with this section.

         (c)   MH installations on individual lots with RS-7M, and
RS-10M, shall consist of the following:

            1.   A minimum of a 500 square foot single wide MH;

            2.   A minimum of 80 square feet of accessory storage
installed (not required when an enclosed garage is built);

            3.   Removing tongue(s);

            4.   Skirting or permanent foundation that complies with
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development regulations;

            5.   A driveway a minimum of 12 feet in width of constructed
of asphalt, concrete or dust proof gravel that has clearly defined
boundaries; and

            6.   A carport or garage measuring a minimum of 10 feet in
width and 20 feet in length (an awning attached to the MH can provide
the carport area);

         (d)   MH installations on individual lots with RS-20M, RS-54M
and RS-GR zoning shall consist of the following:

            1.   A MH comprised of 2 fully enclosed parallel sections
each of not less than 12 feet in width and 36 feet in length;

            2.   Set upon a permanent foundation, as specified by the
manufacturer and approved by the Arizona Department of Housing,
Manufactured Housing Division, and that the space at the perimeter,
between the home and the ground, be enclosed by concrete, concrete
masonry units, brick or stone, with required access;

            3.   A shingle or metal roof with a minimum pitch of 3:12;

            4.   A driveway a minimum of 12 feet in width of constructed
of asphalt, concrete or dust proof gravel that has clearly defined
boundaries; and

            5.   A carport or garage measuring a minimum of 10 feet in
width and 20 feet in length (an awning attached to the MH can provide
the carport area).

      (2)   MH installation in a manufactured home park.

         (a)   Permits are required for all MHs and any additions
thereto, to be installed. MH installations on lots in MHP or RVP zoned
parks are limited to homes that have affixed thereto a decal certifying
that the dwelling unit has been inspected and constructed in accordance
with the requirements of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development ("HUD") in effect at the date of manufacture wherein such
date shall not have been prior to June 15, 1976, or such other
succeeding requirements which replace HUD standards, and to homes that
have been issued a certificate of compliance showing that they have been
rehabilitated pursuant to A.A.C. R4-34-606.

         (b)   MH installations in MHP and RVP parks, shall consist of
the following:

            1.   Greater than a 400 square foot single wide MH;

            2.   A minimum of 48 square feet of accessory storage
installed (not required when an enclosed garage is built);

            3.   Skirting;

            4.   A parking area a minimum of nine feet in width and 18
feet in length constructed with asphalt, concrete or dust proof gravel
that has clearly defined boundaries;

         (c)   MH installations in MHP and RVP parks, shall consist of
the following:

            1.   A minimum of a 401 square foot single wide MH;

            2.   A minimum of 80 square feet of accessory storage
installed (not required when an enclosed garage is built);

            3.   Skirting; and

            4.   A parking area a minimum of 9 feet in width and 19 feet
in length of constructed of asphalt, concrete or dust proof gravel that
has clearly defined boundaries;

      (3)   All MH sets.

         (a)   The construction/configuration of exterior egress
structures (stairs, ramps, handrails, and the like) must comply with the
minimum requirements of International Residential Code (Section R311).
MHs must have a minimum of 2 means of egress as required by the 24 CFR
Part 3280, Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards.

            1.   There shall be a landing at the top and bottom of each
stairway.

            2.   The width of each landing shall not be less than the
width of the stairway served.

            3.   Every landing shall have a minimum dimension of 36
inches measured in the direction of travel.

            4.   Handrails shall be provided on at least 1 side of each
continuous run of treads or flight with 4 or more risers.

            5.   Exterior landings, decks, and stairs shall be
positively anchored to resist both vertical and lateral forces.

            6.   Where wood or wood-based products/materials are used
for landings, decks, and stairs the protection of the material shall be
in compliance with R317 of the state adopted International Residential
Code.

         (b)   For final inspection of a MH set all skirting or
foundation elements, all required egress elements, and all required site
drainage shall be complete and all requirements met.

      (4)   Additions to MH. The livable floor area of a home may be
enlarged by the construction of an attached structure provided that the
following criteria are met:

         (a)   The attached structure must conform to and meet all
requirements of the Technical Code, and Zoning Code.

         (b)   If the home is removed from the lot, for any reason, and
not replaced with a similar structure within a period of 3 months, the
attached structure must also be removed, disassembled or torn down.

         (c)   The above restrictions do not apply to an addition to a
home which is specifically manufactured for attachment to that make and
model of the subject home.

   (C)   Mobile homes. Work related to routine maintenance and repair,
and work identified as exempt under § 7-1-6 (B) of this article, may be
performed on existing mobile homes; this includes exemptions where
"manufactured home" is specified in the exemption. It shall be illegal,
as punishable under A.J.C.C. Vol. I, § 1-1-11, to reconstruct mobile
home units (those built before June 15, 1976) in the City of Apache
Junction. Repairs not identified as exempt from permits shall only be
made to or done on mobile homes that have a certificate showing they
have been rehabilitated and a certificate of compliance has been issued
per A.A.C. R4-34-606. A mobile home that has not been rehabilitated or
does not have the certificate of compliance cannot be installed in the
City of Apache Junction. Mobile homes, where reconstruction has occurred
without state approval and a permit for reconstruction issued by the
City of Apache Junction, are declared unsafe and shall be removed from
the city or shall be demolished.

   (D)   Park models and park trailers. Park model installation shall
follow the manufacturer's installation instructions or if the
installation instructions are not available, the installation
requirements for a model similar in length, width and height. The PM
shall be secured against overturning. Where temporary electrical, water,
and sewer connections are not provided with the unit, hard connections
shall be made in accordance with the Technical Codes. PMs will have
properly installed skirting along all sides. To obtain a PM set permit,
properly licensed electrical, mechanical, plumbing and/or metal
structure contractors shall be identified when applying for the permit.
PM installation or use is not allowed outside of approved recreational
vehicle parks or subdivisions, or manufactured home parks or
subdivisions.

      (1)   Regardless of the age of the unit, permits are required for
all PMs and any additions thereto, to be installed. PM installations for
PMs older than 15 years on lots in MHP or RVP zoned parks are limited to
PMs that have passed a one-time inspection by any certified HUD basic
Housing Quality Standards ("HQS") inspector or Arizona licensed home
inspector or its equivalent for units from outside the State of Arizona.
The purpose of the HQS inspection is to ensure that the PM is decent,
safe, sanitary, and, to the extent applicable to the size restrictions
of PMs, meets the HUD basic HQS found in 24 CFR Part 982 and modified
herein and limited to the following HQS categories using a checklist
provided by the Building and Safety Manager:

         (a)   Sanitary facilities, food preparation and refuse
disposal, space and security, thermal environment, illumination and
electricity, structure and materials, HVAC system, water supply, access,
sanitary condition, and smoke detectors.

         (b)   Patio enclosures shall comply with IBC Appendix I as
adopted by this chapter.

         (c)   HVAC systems shall be installed per the Technical Codes
including the Mechanical Code and Energy Code.

         (d)   Photovoltaic or solar water heating systems, when the
manufacture has designed the PM to support the installation of a
photovoltaic or solar water heating system, and has made provisions for
connection of such system, the installation shall comply with the
manufacturer’s instructions and the Technical Codes.

      (2)   Allowable PM attached accessory structures shall be
constructed per the following and the Technical Codes:

         (a)   Metal awnings shall have a current evaluation report and
current engineering.

         (b)   Patio enclosures shall comply with IBC Appendix I as
adopted by this chapter.

         (c)   HVAC systems shall be installed per the Technical Codes
including the Mechanical Code and Energy Code.

         (d)   Photovoltaic or solar water heating systems, when the
manufacture has designed the PM to support the installation of a
photovoltaic or solar water heating system, and has made provisions for
connection of such system, the installation shall comply with the
manufacturer's instructions and the Technical Codes.

      (3)   Allowable PM detached accessory structures shall be
constructed in compliance with the Technical Codes.

         (a)   Allowable detached accessory structures include:

            1.   Storage rooms or sheds,

            2.   Engineered self-supporting shade structures (porches,
carports, metal and non-metal awnings),

            3.   Habitable room additions not exceeding the square
footage of the PM, and built per the Residential Code or the Building
Code,

               Exception: In RV subdivisions, where the lot is owned and
occupied by an individual or individuals, the total enclosed square
footage of the PM, any habitable additions, and any storage buildings,
shall not exceed 48% of the lot's total square footage.

            4.   Decks, and,

            5.   Detached garages.

      (4)   PM locations, PM additions, and storage buildings must
comply with all setbacks and may not encroach into any required easement
or the required clear space around a utility service or electrical
pedestal. In no case shall a PM or an addition be set or constructed
closer than six feet to an existing PM or enclosed structure on another
lot, unless a less restrictive setback requirement exists for MH or RV
parks that have established legal nonconforming rights.

      (5)   PMs may not be altered from their original layout and cannot
be altered, modified or reconstructed from their original condition.
Repair or replacement of service equipment like air conditioning, hot
water heaters, etc. shall be with equivalent type and size, and with the
same or less electrical or gas demand, as the original equipment. The
installing of a water heater unit on the exterior of a PM is prohibited.
The installation of a larger water heater requires a permit, and the
water heater must be installed inside a permitted and approved detached
accessory structure, and the installation, electric, gas and/or plumbing
shall comply with the Technical Codes. PMs manufactured with duct work
and intended to be connected to a package unit are acceptable. The
installation of exterior plaster (stucco), stone veneer, and brick
veneer to a PM is prohibited. The original PM manufacturer can alter the
exterior of an existing PM model after submitting a letter for a
specific site and specific PM with specifications showing the PM model
will still comply to the standard under which it was built, to the
division of building safety and inspection.

   (E)   Recreational vehicles, motor homes, and travel trailers. RVs,
motor homes and travel trailers cannot be altered, modified or
reconstructed from their original condition. Repair or replacement of
service equipment like air conditioning, hot water heaters, etc. shall
be with the same type and size, electrical or gas demands as the
original equipment. The installing of a water heater unit on the
exterior of an RV, motor home or travel trailer is prohibited. The
installation of a larger water heater requires a permit, and the water
heater must be installed inside a permitted and approved detached
accessory structure, and the installation and plumbing shall comply with
the Technical Codes. No additions or permanent attachments shall be made
to a fifth wheel, motor home or travel trailer.

   (F)   General requirements. ABS pipe used for above ground connection
of MH, mobile homes, PM, travel trailers, RV and motor homes shall be
listed for UV (ultra-violet) exposure, protected per the manufacturer’s
instructions from UV degradation or installed directly under the unit
and protected by skirting or foundation.

   (G)   Unlawful acts. It is an unlawful act, as punishable under
A.J.C.C. Vol. I, § 1-1-11 to make alterations to or reconstruct any MHs
or factory-built buildings unless such person is licensed or certified.

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019; Am.
Ord. 1485, passed 3-3-2020)

§ 7-1-12 STANDARD FOR FIREPLACES, WOOD STOVES AND OTHER SOLID FUEL
BURNING DEVICES.

   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this standard is to regulate
fireplaces, woodstoves or other solid-fuel burning devices to reduce the
amount of air pollution caused by particulate matter and carbon
monoxide.

   (B)   Effective date. The effective date of the regulations and
prohibitions set forth in this standard shall take effect no earlier
than December 31, 1998.

   (C)   Definitions. For the purposes of this standard, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
a different meaning.

      FIREPLACE. A built-in-place masonry hearth and fire chamber or a
factory-built appliance, designed to bum solid fuel or to accommodate
gas or electric log insert or similar device, and which is intended for
occasional recreational or aesthetic use, not for cooking, heating or
industrial purposes.

      SOLID FUEL. Includes but is not limited to: wood, coal or other
nongaseous or non-liquid fuels, including those fuels defined by the
Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Officer as “inappropriate fuel” to
burn in residential wood-burning devices.

      WOODSTOVE. A solid fuel-burning heating appliance including a
pellet stove, which is either freestanding or designed to be inserted
into a fireplace.

   (D)   Installation restrictions.

      (1)   On or after the effective date, no person, firm or
corporations shall construct or install a fireplace or woodstove, and
the Building Official shall not approve or issue a permit to construct
or install a fireplace or woodstove, unless the fireplace or woodstove
complies with 1 of the following:

         (a)   A fireplace which has a permanently installed gas or
electric log insert;

         (b)   A fireplace, woodstove or other solid fuel-burning
appliance which has been certified by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) as conforming to 40 Code of Federal Regulations
Part 60, Subpart, AAA as amended through July 1, 2006;

         (c)   A fireplace, woodstove or other solid fuel-burning
appliance which has been tested and listed by a nationally recognized
testing agency to meet performance standards equivalent to those adopted
by 40 Code of Federal Regulations Part 60, Subpart AAA as amended
through July 1, 2006;

         (d)   A fireplace, woodstove or other solid fuel-burning
appliance which has been determined by the Maricopa County Air Pollution
Control Officer to meet the performance standards equivalent to those
adopted by 40 Code of Federal Regulations Part 60, Subpart AAA as
amended through July 1, 2006; or

         (e)   A fireplace which has a permanently installed woodstove
insert which complies with divisions (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c) or (D)(1)(d).

      (2)   The following installations are not regulated by this
standard and are not prohibited by this standard:

         (a)   Furnaces, boilers, incinerators, kilns and other similar
space heating or industrial process equipment;

         (b)   Cook stoves, barbecue grills and similar appliances
designed primarily for cooking; or

         (c)   Fire pits, barbecue grills and other outdoor fireplaces.

   (E)   Fireplace or woodstove alterations prohibited.

      (1)   On or after the effective date, no person, firm or
corporations shall alter or remove a gas or electric log insert or a
woodstove insert from a fireplace for purposes of converting the
fireplace to directly burn wood or other solid fuel.

      (2)   On or after the effective date, no person, firm or
corporations shall alter a fireplace, woodstove or other solid
fuel-burning appliance in any manner that would void its certification
or operations compliance with the provisions of this standard.

   (F)   Permits required. In addition to the provisions and
restrictions of this standard, construction, installation or alteration
of all fireplace, woodstove and other gas, electric or solid
fuel-burning appliances and equipment shall be done in compliance with
provisions of the Technical Codes and shall be subject to the permits
and inspections required by this chapter.

(Ord. 1273, passed 3-20-2007; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

ARTICLE 7-2: BUILDING CODE

Section

   7-2-1   Adoption by reference

   7-2-2   Amendments to the 2018 International Building Code

§ 7-2-1 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.

   The following publication is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out at length in this Code: 2018 International Building Code published
by the International Code Council, First Edition, August 2017, including
Appendix I - Patio Covers Amended and Appendix J - Grading Amended.

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-2-2 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.

   (A)   CHAPTER 1 SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section 101.1 of the 2018 International Building Code is
amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:

         101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Apache
Junction Building Code, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”

      (2)   Sections 101.2 through 116.5 inclusive are deleted in their
entirety. See Vol. I, Chapter 7, Article 7-1, Division of Building
Safety and Inspection Administrative Code.

   (B)   CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS is amended as follows:

      The following definitions have been added or amended to read as
follows:

      ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE FACILITY (A.R.S. § 36-401). A facility that
provides adult day health services during a portion of a continuous
twenty-four-hour period for compensation on a regular basis for five or
more adults who are not related to the proprietor. (added)

      ADULT DAY HEALTH SERVICES (A.R.S. § 36-401). A program that
provides planned care supervision and activities, personal care,
personal living skills training, meals and health monitoring in a group
setting during a portion of a continuous twenty-four-hour period. Adult
day health services may also include preventive, therapeutic and
restorative health-related services that do not include behavioral
health services. (added)

      ADULT DEVELOPMENTAL HOME (A.R.S. § 36-551). A residential setting
in a family home in which the care, physical custody and supervision of
the adult client are the responsibility, under a twenty-four-hour care
model, of the licensee who, in that capacity, is not an employee of the
division or of a service provider and the home provides the following
services for a group of siblings or up to three adults with
developmental disabilities- room and board, habilitation, appropriate
personal care and appropriate supervision. (added)

      ADULT FOSTER CARE HOME (A.R.S. § 36-401). A residential setting
that provides room and board and adult foster care services for at least
one and no more than four adults who are participants in the Arizona
long-term care system pursuant to Chapter 29, Article 2 of this title or
contracts for services with the United States department of veterans
affairs and in which the sponsor or the manager resides with the
residents and integrates the residents who are receiving adult foster
care into that person’s family. (added)

      ADULT FOSTER CARE SERVICES (A.R.S. § 36-401). Supervision,
assistance with eating, bathing, toileting, dressing, self-medication
and other routines of daily living or services authorized by rules
adopted pursuant to A.R.S. §§ 36-405 and 36-2939, subsection C. (added)

      ASSISTED LIVING CENTER (A.R.S. § 36-401). An assisted living
facility that provides resident rooms or residential units to eleven or
more residents. (added)

      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY (A.R.S. § 36-401). A residential care
institution, including an adult foster care home, that provides or
contracts to provide supervisory care services, personal care services
or directed care services on a continuous basis. (added)

      ASSISTED LIVING HOME (A.R.S. § 36-401). An assisted living
facility that provides resident rooms to ten or fewer residents. (added)

      BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICES. Services that pertain to mental health
and substance use disorders.

      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SETTING (A.R.S. § 36-551). A residential
setting in which persons with developmental disabilities live and are
provided with appropriate supervision by the service provider
responsible for the operation of the residential setting. Community
residential setting includes a child developmental home or an adult
developmental home operated or contracted by the Department or the
Department's contracted vendor or a group home operated or contracted by
the Department. (added)

      DIRECTED CARE SERVICE (A.R.S. § 36-401). Programs and services,
including supervisory and personal care services that are provided to
persons who are incapable of recognizing danger, summoning assistance,
expressing need, or making basic care decisions. (added)

      EXISTING BUILDING. See definition Apache Junction City Code Vol.
I, § 7-1-2(F). (delete and replace)

      EXISTING STRUCTURE. A structure in existence prior to 1985, or
constructed 1985 or later under an issued building permit, which has
passed all required inspections. (delete and replace)

      GROUP HOME (A.R.S. § 36-551). A community residential setting for
not more than six persons with developmental disabilities that is
operated by a service provider under contract with the Department and
that provides room and board and daily habilitation, and other assessed
medically necessary services and supports to meet the needs of each
person. Group home does not include an adult developmental home, a child
developmental home or an intermediate care facility for persons with an
intellectual disability. (delete and replace)

      GROUP TREATMENT HOME. A facility for social rehabilitation,
substance abuse or mental health problems that contains a group housing
arrangement that provides custodial care but does not provide medical
care. (amended)

      HEALTH CARE INSTITUTION (A.R.S. § 36-401). Every place,
institution, building or agency, whether organized for profit or not,
that provides facilities with medical services, nursing services,
behavioral health services, health screening services, other
health-related services, supervisory care services, personal care
services or directed care services and includes home health agencies as
defined in A.R.S. § 36-151, outdoor behavioral health care programs and
hospice service agencies. Health care institution does not include a
community residential setting as defined in A.R.S. § 36-551. (added)

      INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH AN INTELLECTUAL
DISABILITY (A.R.S. § 36-551). A facility that primarily provides health
and rehabilitative services to persons with developmental disabilities
that are above the service level of room and board or supervisory care
services or personal care services as defined in A.R.S. § 36-401 but
that are less intensive than skilled nursing services. (added)

      LICENSED CAPACITY (A.R.S. § 36-401). The total number of persons
for whom the health care institution is authorized by the Department to
provide services as required pursuant to this chapter if the person is
expected to stay in the health care institution for more than
twenty-four hours. (added)

      NURSING CARE INSTITUTION (A.R.S. § 36-401). A health care
institution that provides inpatient beds or resident beds and nursing
services to persons who need continuous nursing services but who do not
require hospital care or direct daily care from a physician.

      NURSING HOMES. See Nursing Care Institution.

      PERSONAL CARE SERVICE. Assistance with activities of daily living
that can be performed by persons without professional skills or
professional training and includes the coordination or provision of
intermittent nursing services and the administration of medications and
treatments by a nurse who is licensed pursuant to A.R.S. Title 32,
Chapter 15 or as otherwise provided by law. (delete and replace)

      RESIDENTIAL CARE INSTITUTION. A health care institution other than
a hospital or a nursing care institution that provides resident beds or
residential units, supervisory care services, personal care services,
behavioral health services, directed care services or health-related
services for persons who do not need continuous nursing services.
(added)

      SUPERVISORY CARE SERVICE. General supervision, including daily
awareness of resident functioning and continuing needs, the ability to
intervene in a crisis and assistance in the self-administration of
prescribed medications. (added)

   (C)   CHAPTER 3 OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION AND USE is amended to read
as follows:

      (1)   Section 304.1 Business Group B is amended to read as
follows:

         To Ambulatory Care Facilities add the following:

         (where not more than five (5) persons are incapable of
self-preservation, and these persons are located at the floor/story at
grade plane, with required exits at the grade plane.)

      (2)   Section 308.2 Institutional Group I-1 is amended to read as
follows:

         308.2 Institutional Group I-1. Institutional Group I-1
occupancy shall include buildings, structures, or portions thereof, for
the housing of more than ten (10) persons, excluding staff, who reside
on a twenty-four- (24) hour basis in a supervised environment and
receive custodial care, personal care service and/or supervisory care
service. Buildings of Group I-1 shall be classified as one of the
occupancy conditions specified in Section 308.2.1 or 308.2.2. This group
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

            Behavioral health services facilities

            Assisted living centers with more than ten (10) residents,
licensed by the State of Arizona

            Department of Health Services Group treatment homes, with
more than ten (10) residents, licensed by the State of Arizona
Department of Health Services

            Halfway houses

            Intermediate care facility for persons with an intellectual
disability, with more than ten (10) residents, licensed by the State of
Arizona Department of Health Services

            Residential care institution, with more than ten (10)
residents, licensed by the State of Arizona Department of Health
Services

            Social rehabilitation facilities

         308.2.3 Six to ten persons receiving supervisory and custodial
care services. A facility housing not fewer than six (6) and not more
than ten (10) persons receiving supervisory and custodial care services
shall be classified as Group R-4.

      (3)   Section 308.3 Institutional Group I-2 is amended to read as
follows:

         308.3 Institutional Group I-2. Institutional Group 1-2
occupancy shall include buildings and structures or portions thereof,
used for medical care or direct care on a 24-hour basis for more than
five persons who are incapable of self-preservation. This group shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:

            Ambulatory Care Facilities where more than five persons are
incapable of self-preservation

            Assisted living center or assisted living home providing
direct care services, where more than five persons are incapable of
self-preservation and are licensed by the State of Arizona Department of
Health Services

            Foster care facilities

            Detoxification facilities

            Hospitals

            Intermediate care facility for persons with an intellectual
disability, providing direct care services, where more than five persons
are incapable of self-preservation, licensed by the State of Arizona
Department of Health Services

            Nursing Care Institutions

            Psychiatric hospitals

            Residential-care institution, providing direct care
services, where more than 5 persons are incapable of self-preservation,
licensed by the State of Arizona Department of Health Services

         308.3.2 Five or fewer persons receiving medical care. A
facility with five or fewer persons receiving medical care that are
incapable of self-preservation shall be classified as Group R-3.

      (4)   Section 308.5 Institutional Group I-4 is amended to read as
follows:

         308.5 Institutional Group I-4, day care facilities.
Institutional Group 1-4 occupancy shall include buildings and structures
occupied by more than five persons of any age who receive custodial
care, personal care service and/or supervisory care service for fewer
than 24 hours per day by persons other than parents or guardians,
relatives by blood, marriage, or adoption, and in a place other than the
home of the person cared for. This group shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:

         Adult Day Health Care Facilities, with five or more persons,
licensed by the State of Arizona Department of Health Services

         Child day care

      (5)   Section 310.3. Residential Group R-2 amend as follows:

         Add the following after Motels (nontransient) - Residential
condominiums

      (6)   Section 310.4 Residential Group R-3 is amended to read as
follows:

         310.4 Residential Group R-3. Residential Group R-3 occupancies
where the occupants are primarily permanent in nature and not classified
as R-l, R-2, R-4, or I, including:

            Adult developmental home, licensed by the State of Arizona
Department of Health Services

            Adult Foster Care Home, licensed by the State of Arizona
Department of Health Services

            Buildings that do not contain more than two (2) dwelling
units

            Congregate living facilities (nontransient) with 16 or fewer
occupants

               Boarding houses

                (nontransient)

               Convents

               Dormitories

               Fraternities and sororities

               Monasteries

            Congregate living facilities (transient) with 10 or fewer
occupants

               Boarding houses (transient)

            Group Home (A.R.S. § 36-551)

            Lodging houses (transient) with five or fewer guest rooms
and 10 or fewer occupants

      (7)   Section 310.5 Residential Group R-4 is amended to read as
follows:

      310.5 Residential Group R-4. Residential Group R-4 occupancy shall
include buildings, structures or portions thereof for more than five but
not more than ten (10) persons, excluding staff, who reside on a 24-hour
basis in a supervised residential environment and receive custodial
care, personal care service and/or supervisory care service. Building of
Group R-4 shall be classified as one of the occupancy conditions
indicated below. This group shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:

         Behavioral health services facilities

            Assisted living home, licensed by the State of Arizona
Department of Health Services

            Group Treatment Homes

            Halfway Houses

            Intermediate care facility for persons with an intellectual
disability, providing direct care services, where no more than five
persons are incapable of self-preservation, licensed by the State of
Arizona Department of Health Services

            Residential-care institution, providing direct care
services, where no more than 5 persons are incapable of
self-preservation, licensed by the State of Arizona Department of Health
Services

            Social rehabilitation facilities

   (D)   CHAPTER 4 SPECIAL DETAILED REQUIREMENTS BASED ON OCCUPANCY AND
USE is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section 404.3 Automatic sprinkler protection is amended by
deleting Exception 1.

         404.3 Automatic sprinkler protection. An approved automatic
sprinkler system shall be installed throughout the entire building.

         Exceptions:

         1. Where the ceiling of the atrium is more than 55 feet (16,764
mm) above the floor, sprinkler protection at the ceiling of the atrium
is not required.

      (2)   410.6 Automatic sprinkler system is amended by deleting
exception #2:

         410.6 Automatic sprinkler system. Stages shall be equipped with
an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.
Sprinklers shall be installed under the roof and gridiron and under all
catwalks and galleries over the stage. Sprinklers shall be installed in
dressing rooms, performer lounges, shops and storerooms accessory to
such stages.

         Exceptions:

         1. Sprinklers are not required under stage areas less than 4
feet (1219 mm) in clear height that are utilized exclusively for storage
of tables and chairs, provided that the concealed space is separated
from the adjacent spaces by Type X gypsum board not less than 5/8-inch
(15.9 mm) in thickness.

         2. Sprinklers are not required within portable orchestra
enclosures on stages.

   (E)   CHAPTER 7 FIRE AND SMOKE PROTECTION FEATURES is amended as
follows

      (1)   Section 707.3.11 Electrical Rooms with Service Entrance
Equipment is added and shall read as follows:

         707.3.11 Electrical Rooms with Service Entrance Equipment.
Fire-resistance rated walls and/ or horizontal assemblies, with a
fire-resistance rating of one hour shall be provided to separate an
electrical room containing service entrance equipment from adjacent
rooms and spaces.

   (F)   CHAPTER 9 FIRE PROTECTION AND LIFE SAFETY SYSTEMS is amended as
follows:

      (1)   Section 903.3.1.1.1 is amended by deleting item number 4.

   (G)   CHAPTER 10 MEANS OF EGRESS is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section 1010.1.10 Panic and fire exit hardware is amended as
follows: In the second paragraph delete the words “and over 6 feet
(1,829mm) wide.”

   (H)   CHAPTER 11 ACCESSIBILITY is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section 1101 GENERAL is amended as follows:

         1101.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter and the “Arizonans
with Disabilities Act” A.R.S. Title 41, Chapter 9, Articles 7 and 8, and
Arizona Administrative Code, Title 10, Chapter 3, Article 4 shall
control the design and construction of facilities for accessibility for
individuals with disabilities.

         1101.2 Where the requirements of this Chapter or the ICC/ANSI
Al 17.1 are at variance from the requirements set forth in A.R.S. Title
41, Chapter 9, Articles 7 and 8, and the “

      (2)   Section 1102.1 Design is amended by adding the following:

         1102.1 Design. Buildings and facilities shall be designed and
constructed to be accessible in accordance with this code and ICC Al
17.1 and in accordance with provisions Arizona Administrative Code
R10-3-401 through R-10-3-404. The “2010 Standards” includes “Public
Entities,” appendices B and D to 36 CFR 1191 (2009) and 28 CFR 35.151
(2011) and “Places of public accommodation and commercial facilities”
appendices B and D to 36 CFR 1191 (2009) and 28 CFR 36.401 through
36.406 (2011), whichever standard provides the greatest degree of
accessibility.

      (3)   Section 1103.2.5 Construction sites is amended and reads as
follows:

         1103.2.5 Construction sites. Structures, sites and equipment
directly associated with the actual processes of construction including,
but not limited to, scaffolding, bridging, materials hoists, materials
storage or construction trailers are not required to comply with this
chapter. The public portions of temporary sales offices/trailers are
required to be accessible. There shall be accessible parking and an
accessible route from the accessible parking aisle to the sales
office/trailer and throughout the public portion of the sales
office/trailer, including the design center. Accessible toilet rooms
shall be provided according to this code.

   (I)   IBC CHAPTER 12 INTERIOR ENVIRONMENT is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section 1204.1 Equipment and systems. Delete and replace
with:

         1204.1 Equipment and systems. Interior spaces intended for
human occupancy shall be provided with heating per Section 1204.1.1 and
cooling per Section 1204.1.2.

            1204.1.1 Heating

            Heating facilities shall be provided, capable of maintaining
room temperature at 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
toilet rooms, based on the winter design temperature of 34°F (01°C) for
Phoenix, per Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code. Cooking
appliances shall not be used to provide space heating to meet the
requirements of this section.

            Exceptions: Heating systems are not required for:

            1.   Interior spaces where the primary purpose of the space
is not associated with human comfort.

            2.   Group F, H, S or U occupancies.

            1204.1.2 Cooling

            Cooling facilities shall be provided, capable of maintaining
room temperature at 85°F (29°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
toilet rooms, based on the summer design temperature of 107°F (42°C) for
Phoenix, per Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code.

            Exceptions: Cooling systems are not required for:

            1.   Interior spaces where the primary purpose of the space
is not associated with human comfort.

            2.   Group F, H, S or U occupancies.

   (J)   CHAPTER 16 STRUCTURAL DESIGN is amended as follows:

      (1)   Table 1607.1, #25 Residential is amended to read as follows:

         Habitable Attics and Sleeping Areas: 40

      (2)   Section 1609.3 Basic design wind speed is amended to read as
follows:

         1609.3 Basic design wind speed. At the end of the first
sentence add “or by using the following wind speeds: Risk Category I -
100 mph; Risk Category 11-105 mph; Risk Category III -110 mph; and Risk
Category IV - 115 mph.”

      (3)   Section 1612.3 Establishment of flood hazard areas is
amended to read as follows:

         Section 1612.3 Establishment of flood hazard areas. “The Flood
Insurance Study (FIS) for the City of Apache Junction dated March 30,
1982,” with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood
Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs) revised December 4, 2007, establishes
the flood hazard areas located in the City of Apache Junction.

   (K)   CHAPTER 17 SPECIAL INSPECTIONS AND TESTS is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section 1704.3 Statement of special inspections is by
amended by deleting the Exception.

      (2)   Section 1704.6.1 Structural observations for structures is
amended by adding additional conditions.

         1704.6.1 Structural observations for structures. Structural
observations shall be provided for those structures where one or more of
the following conditions exist:

         1. The structure is classified as Risk Category IV.

         2. The structure is a high-rise building.

         3. Such observation is required by the registered design
professional responsible for the structural design.

         4. Such observation is specifically required by the Building
and Safety Manager.

         5. The height of the structure is greater than 75 feet
(22.860mm) above the grade plane.

         6. The structure has more than three stories above the grade
plane.

         7. Elevated post-tensioned concrete structures.

         8. Prefabricated deferred units and their connections when such
units are utilized structurally in the lateral force-resisting systems
of a structure.

   (3)   Section 1704.7 is added as follows:

      1704.7 Mechanical, electrical and plumbing observations.

      1704.7.1 General.

      The owner shall employ the registered design professional
responsible for the mechanical, electrical or plumbing design, or
another registered design professional designated by the registered
design professional responsible for the mechanical, electrical or
plumbing design, to perform visual observation of complex mechanical,
electrical or plumbing equipment and systems for general conformance to
the approved plans and specifications, including but not limited to,
placement and interconnection of equipment and systems. Mechanical,
electrical or plumbing observation shall be performed at significant
stages of the construction and when the particular installation is
complete and ready to be inspected. Mechanical, electrical or plumbing
observations are in addition to the inspections required by Vol. I, §
7-1-7 of the Apache Junction Building Code and the special inspections
required by Section 1705.19, 1705.20 and 1705.21.

         1704.7.1.1 Procedures.

         The registered design professional responsible for mechanical,
electrical or plumbing observation shall personally visit the site prior
to completion of the Certificate of Compliance and periodically during
the course of construction requiring mechanical, electrical or plumbing
observation as set forth in the inspection and observation program for
each project.

         The registered design professional responsible for performing
mechanical, electrical or plumbing observation shall complete a signed
written report after each site visit. A copy of each report shall be
kept on the job site for review by an inspector at all times until the
inspector has issued final approval. Any and all deviations from the
approved plans or specifications shall be immediately reported to the
contractor for correction and then, if uncorrected, shall be reported to
the registered design professional in responsible charge and to the
Building and Safety Manager.

         In addition to individual reports, the registered design
professional in responsible charge shall file with the Building and
Safety Manager a written monthly progress report indicating the dates of
each site visit, the special inspections or observations performed, any
deviations noted from approved plans and specifications and any
resulting instructions or change orders issued to the contractor.

         1704.7.1.2 Certificate of compliance.

         Upon completion of the portions of the work requiring
mechanical, electrical or plumbing observation, a Certificate of
Compliance shall be issued to the Building and Safety Manager under the
seal and signature of the registered design professional responsible for
such observation. A Certificate of Occupancy will not be issued until
the building and safety manager receives all required special
observation reports and the Certificates of Compliance.

         The Certificate of Compliance for mechanical, electrical or
plumbing observation shall read as follows:

            “I certify to the best of my knowledge the [mechanical,
electrical or plumbing] requirements of the Apache Junction Building
Code and approved plans and specifications have been complied with
insofar as the portion of the work requiring [mechanical, electrical or
plumbing] observation is concerned, except for those deviations that
have been previously reported. A guarantee that the contractor has
constructed the building in full accord with the plans and
specifications is neither intended nor implied.”

         1704.7.2 Mechanical, electrical and plumbing required
observations.

         1704.7.2.1 Mechanical observation. Mechanical observation shall
be provided when one of the following conditions exist:

         1. A complex exhaust system is required for a hazardous
condition or occupancy.

         2. When such observation is specifically required by the
Building and Safety Manager.

         1704.7.2.2 Electrical observation. Electrical observation shall
be provided when one of the following conditions exist:

         1. Installations or alterations of high-voltage electrical
systems, which exceed 1000 volts.

         2. Installations or alterations of electrical systems within
locations classified as hazardous by the provisions of adopted the
National Electric Code, or the International Fire Code, except for
gasoline dispensing installations and systems located within storage
garages, repair garages or lubritoriums.

         3. When such observation is specifically required by the
Building and Safety Manager.

         1704.7.2.3 Plumbing observation. Plumbing observation shall be
provided when one of the following conditions exist:

         1. When such observation is specifically required by the
Building and Safety Manager.

      (4)   New sections 1705.19 Electrical special inspections, 1705.20
Mechanical special inspections, and 1705.21 Plumbing special inspections
are added at the end of section 1705 and read as follows:

         1705.19 Electrical special inspections.

         The types of equipment or installations noted below shall be
tested or inspected by a special inspector.

         1. Ground-fault protection of equipment (“GFPE”) required under
Article 230.95, shall be performance tested per Article 230.95(C). The
results of the testing shall be submitted to the Building and Safety
Manager prior to the energizing of the equipment.

         2. Installation or repair of switchboards, panelboards, motor
control centers, and other equipment rated 1,200 amps or more; or over
1,000 volts.

         3. Installation or alteration of essential electrical systems
required under Article 517 Health Care Facilities, emergency systems
covered by Article 700 Emergency Systems and systems covered by Article
701 Legally Required Standby Systems, including switchboards, panel
boards, distribution boards, transfer equipment, power source,
conductors, fire pumps, and exhaust and ventilation fans.

         4. Transformers rated 100 kVA or more, single phase; or 300 kVA
or more, three phase.

         5. When electrical special inspection is specifically required
by the Building and Safety Manager.

         Exception: The Building and Safety Manager may waive the
requirement for special inspection if the construction is of a minor
nature.

         1705.20 Mechanical special inspections.

         The types of equipment or installations noted below shall be
tested or inspected by a special inspector in accordance with
regulations established by the Building and Safety Manager:

         1. Duct smoke detectors for air distribution systems as
required by International Mechanical Code section 606.5.

         2. Fire, fire/smoke, radiation and smoke damper operation for
dampers required by International Mechanical Code section 607.3.

         3. Installation of grease duct enclosure alternative systems
allowed under the exceptions to the International Mechanical Code
section 506.3.11 where the grease exhaust duct passes completely through
one or more stories above.

         4. Test and Balance report for air balance of ventilation
systems installed in ambulatory care and 1-2 occupancies designed and
installed in accordance with ASHRAE 170 as required by International
Mechanical Code section 407.1.

         5. When mechanical special inspection is specifically required
by the Building and Safety Manager.

         Exception: The Building and Safety Manager may waive the
requirement for special inspection if the construction is of a minor
nature.

         1705.21 Plumbing special inspections. 

         The types of equipment or installations noted below shall be
tested or inspected by a special inspector.

         1. Nonflammable medical gas systems, inhalation anesthetic
systems and vacuum piping systems, except portable systems or cylinder
storage.

         2. When plumbing special inspection is specifically required by
the Building and Safety Manager.

         Exception: The Building and Safety Manager may waive the
requirement for special inspection if the construction is of a minor
nature.

   (L)   CHAPTER 18 SOILS AND FOUNDATIONS is amended as follows:

      A new section, 1803.5.13 Post-tensioned slabs on ground, is added
at the end of section 1803.5 and reads as follows:

      Section 1803.5.13 Post-tensioned slabs on ground. A geotechnical
investigation is required for the design of all post-tensioned slabs on
ground. The investigation report shall include all soil parameters as
outlined in PTI DC-10.5. information required on the drawings includes,
but is not limited to, slab type, soil parameters, bearing value and
depth, coefficient of subgrade friction, soil subgrade modulus, em and
ym for expansive soils and all special inspection requirements.

   (M)   CHAPTER 19 CONCRETE is amended as follows:

      A new section, 1907.2 Post-tensioned slabs on ground, is added at
the end of section 1907 and reads as follows:

      Section 1907.2 Post-tensioned slabs on ground. All post-tensioned
slabs on ground shall be permanently stamped, marked or otherwise
identified in a conspicuous location indicating the slab is a
post-tensioned slab. Conspicuous locations include, but are not limited
to, entrance porches, slabs at garage doors or patio slabs.

   (N)   CHAPTER 21 MASONRY is amended as follows:

      Section 2111.1 General. The construction of masonry fireplaces,
consisting of concrete or masonry, shall be in accordance with this
section and Vol. I, § 7-1-12 of Chapter 7 Buildings.

   (O)   CHAPTER 29 PLUMBING SYSTEMS is amended to read as follows:

      Table 2902.1 Minimum Number of Required Plumbing Fixtures is
amended as follows:

      Revise footnote “e” to read as follows: For business and
mercantile classifications with an occupant load of 25 or fewer, a
service sink shall not be required. This exception does not apply to any
B or M occupancy where food or drink is prepared and served.

      Add new footnote “g” to read as follows:

      g. 24 inches (610 mm) of a linear wash sink or 18 inches (457 mm)
of a circular wash basin shall be provided for each faucet to be counted
toward the required lavatories.

   (P)   CHAPTER 32 ENCROACHMENTS INTO THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY is
amended as follows:

      Section 3201 GENERAL is amended to read as follows:

      3201.1 Scope. The provisions of the City of Apache Junction City
Code, Vol. I, Chapter 13 shall govern the encroachments of structures
into the public right-of-way.

      Sections 3201.2 through 3202.4 are deleted in their entirety.

   (Q)   APPENDIX I PATIO COVERS is amended as follows:

      (1)   Amend Title to APPENDIX I PATIO ROOMS.

      (2)   1101.1 General. Patio rooms shall be permitted to be
detached from or attached to dwelling units. Patio rooms shall be used
only for recreational, outdoor living purposes and not as carports,
garages, storage rooms or habitable rooms.

      (3)   1102.1 General. The following term shall, for the purposes
of this appendix, have the meaning shown herein. Refer to Chapter 2 of
this code for general definitions.

            PATIO ROOM. A structure with open or glazed walls that is
used for recreational, outdoor living purposes associated with a
dwelling unit.

      (4)   1104.1 Height. Patio rooms shall be limited to one-story
structures not more than 12 feet in height.

      (5)   1105.1 Design loads. Patio rooms shall be designed and
constructed to sustain, within the stress limits of the code, all dead
loads plus a vertical live load of 10 pounds per square foot (0.48
kn/M2) except that snow loads shall be used where such snow loads exceed
this minimum. Such patio rooms shall be designed to resist the minimum
wind and seismic loads set forth in this code.

      (6)   1105.2 Footings. In areas with a frost depth of zero, a
patio room shall be permitted to be supported on a concrete slab on
grade without footings, provided that the slab conforms to the
provisions of Chapter 19 of this code and is not less than 3-1/2 inches
(89 mm) thick, and the columns do not support loads in excess of 750
pounds (3.36 kn) per column.

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

ARTICLE 7-3: ACCESSIBILITY CODE

Section

   7-3-1   Adoption by Reference

   7-3-2   Amendments to ICC A117.1-2017 Accessible and Usable Buildings
and Facilities

§ 7-3-1 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.

   The following publication is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out at length in this Code: ICC A1117.1-2017 Accessible and Usable
Buildings and Facilities published by the International Code Council,
First Edition, February 2018.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-3-2 AMENDMENTS TO ICC A117.1-2017 ACCESSIBLE AND USABLE BUILDINGS
AND FACILITIES.

   CHAPTER 1 APPLICATION AND ADMINISTRATION is amended as follows:

      Section 101 TITLE is amended by adding the following paragraph:

      This document shall be known as the standard for Accessible and
Usable Buildings and Facilities, hereinafter referred to as “this
standard.” This standard provides supplementary codes, provisions and
information to the “Arizonans with Disabilities Act” A.R.S. Title 41,
Chapter 9, Articles 7 and 8, and Arizona Administrative Code, Title 10,
Chapter 3, Article 4 and may be used for the design and construction of
buildings and facilities for the accessibility of individuals with
disabilities.

      Where the requirements of this standard are at variance from the
requirements set forth in “Arizonans with Disabilities Act” A.R.S. Title
41, Chapter 9, Articles 7 and 8, and the “Arizonans with Disabilities
Act Implementing Rules,” Arizona Administrative Code, Title 10, Chapter
3, Article 4, the state statutes and implementing rules shall govern.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

ARTICLE 7-4: RESIDENTIAL CODE

Section

   7-4-1   Adoption by reference

   7-4-2   Amendments to the 2018 International Residential Code

§ 7-4-1 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.

   The following publication is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out at length in this code: 2018 International Residential Code
published by the International Code Council, First Edition, August 2017,
including Appendix H Patio Covers amended.

(Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-4-2 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.

   (A)   CHAPTER 1 SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section 101.1 of the 2018 International Residential Code is
amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:

         101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Apache
Junction Residential Code, hereinafter referred to as “his code.”

      (2)   Sections 101.2 through 114.2 inclusive are deleted in their
entirety. See Vol. I, Chapter 7, Article 7-1, Division of Building
Safety and Inspection Administrative Code.

   (B)   Section R202 DEFINITIONS is amended as follows:

      FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE. The distance measured from the face of
the wall framing to one of the following:

         1. To the closest interior lot line.

         2. To the centerline of a street, an alley or public way.

         3. To an imaginary line between two buildings on the lot.

         The distance shall be measured at a right angle from the face
of the wall framing.

      WOODSTOVE. A solid-fuel burning heating appliance including a
pellet stove, which is either freestanding or designed to be inserted
into a fireplace.

   (C)   Chapter 3 Building Planning is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section R301.2.1.1.1 is deleted.

      (2)   Table R301.2(1) is completed as follows:

 

  --------------------------------------- -------------------
  GROUND SNOW LOAD:                       n/a

  WIND DESIGN:                             

     Speed (mph):                         105

     Topographic effects:                 Yes

     Special Wind Region:                 No

     Windborne debris zone:               No

  SEISMIC DESIGN CATEGORY:                B

  SUBJECT TO DAMAGE FROM:                  

     Weathering:                          Negligible

     Frost line depth:                    Final grade

     Termites:                            Moderate to heavy

  WINTER DESIGN TEMPERATURE:              34

  ICE BARRIER UNDERLAYMENT REQUIRED:      No

  FLOOD HAZARDS: See Apache Junction       
                                          
  City Code Vol. II, Ch. 5                

  AIR FREEZING INDEX:                     n/a

  MEAN ANNUAL TEMPERATURE:                69.6°F

  MANUAL J DESIGN CRITERIA                 

        Elevation:                        1720 feet

        Latitude:                         33

        Winter heating:                   34 degrees

        Summer cooling:                   108 degrees

        Altitude correction factor:        

        Indoor design temperature:         

        Design temperature cooling:       75 degrees

        Heating temperature difference:    

        Cooling temperature difference:    

        Wind velocity heating:             

        Wind velocity cooling:             

        Coincident wet bulb:              69 degrees

        Daily range:                      30

        Winter humidity:                   

        Winter humidity:                   
  --------------------------------------- -------------------

 

      (3)   Section R301.5 Live Load is amended by revising Table R301.5
as follows: Change live load for “Sleeping rooms” from 30 psf to 40 psf,
and the live load for Habitable attics and attics with fixed stairs from
30 psf to 40 psf.

 

MINIMUM UNIFORMLY DISTRIBUTED LIVE LOADS
(in pounds per square foot)

USE

LIVE LOAD

Uninhabitable attics without storageb

10

Uninhabitable attics with limited storageb, g

20

Habitable attics and attics served with fixed stairs

40

Balconies (exteriors) and decksb

40

Fire escapes

40

Guards and handrailsd

200h

Guard in-fill componentsf

50h

Passenger vehicle garagesa

50h

Rooms other than sleeping rooms

40

Sleeping rooms

40

Stairs

40c

 

      (4)   Table 302.1(1) Exterior Walls is amended as follows:

 

  -------------- ----- ---------------------------- ----------
  Penetrations   All   Comply with Section R302.4   < 5 feet
                       None required                5 feet
  -------------- ----- ---------------------------- ----------

         Delete footnote b.

 

   (5)   Section R302.2.6 is amended by deleting exception 5.

   (6)   Section R303 LIGHT, VENTILATION AND HEATING is amended as
follows:

      Section R303.10 is deleted and replaced with the following:

      R303.10 Required heating and cooling. Dwellings shall be provided
with heating per Section R303.10.1 and cooling per Section R303.10.2.

         R303.10.1 Heating

         Heating facilities shall be provided, capable of maintaining
room temperature at 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
toilet rooms, based on the winter design temperature of 34°F (01°C) for
Phoenix, per Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code. Cooking
appliances shall not be used to provide space heating to meet the
requirements of this section.

         Exceptions: Heating systems are not required for:

            1. Interior spaces where the primary purpose of the space is
not associated with human comfort.

            2. Group U occupancies.

         R303.10.2 Cooling

         Cooling facilities shall be provided, capable of maintaining
room temperature at 85°F (29°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
toilet rooms, based on the summer design temperature of 107°F (42°C) for
Phoenix, per Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code.

         Exceptions: Cooling systems are not required for:

            1. Interior spaces where the primary purpose of the space is
not associated with human comfort.

            2. Group U occupancies.

      (7)   Section R309.2 Carports is amended by deleting the
exception.

      (8)   Section R313 AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS is amended as
follows:

         R313.2 One- and Two-family dwellings automatic fire sprinkler
systems. An automatic residential fire sprinkler system may be installed
in one and two-family dwellings using Section P2904 or NFPA 13D for the
design.

         Delete R313.2.1.

      (9)   Section R320 Accessibility is amended by adding two new
Sections R320.2 and R320.3 to read as follows:

         R320.2 No-Step Entrance. At least one (1) model home dwelling
unit in every model home complex shall have a no-step entrance to serve
as a demonstration of the builder’s method of providing a no-step entry
as an option for new home construction. Model dwellings selected to
demonstrate this option, and all dwelling units providing this option,
shall be served by a route of travel meeting the following requirements:

            1. A continuous no-step path connecting each subdivision
sales office or public way to an entrance of the unit.

            2. A route of travel that consists of a firm stable, and
slip-resistant surface with a minimum continuous width of thirty-six
inches (36") and a minimum clear height of seven feet (7') above the
route.

            3. The running slope of such route shall not exceed one to
twelve (1:12).

            4. A minimum forty-eight inches by forty-eight inches (48" X
48") maneuvering space on the exterior side of the door constructed with
less than two percent (2%) slope in any direction.

            5. A minimum thirty-two inch (32") clear-opening door with a
threshold not exceeding one-half inch.

            6. Identification by readily viewable signage.

         R320.3 Model Home Sales Office Restrooms. If public restrooms
are provided for residential development models, such restroom
facilities shall be accessible and shall be provided by either of the
following methods:

            1. Converting one (1) ground-floor model home restroom into
an ADA-accessible unisex facility; or

            2. Providing one (1) ADA-accessible unisex portable toilet
and hand-washing unit located on an accessible route. The accessible
portable toilet facility shall be removed when the Sales Office is
permanently closed.

   (D)   Chapter 4 Foundations is amended as follows:

      (1)   Table 401.4.1 is amended as follows:

 

PRESUMPTIVE LOAD-BEARING VALUES OF FOUNDATION MATERIALSa

Class of Material

Load-Bearing Pressure
(Pounds per Square Foot)

Crystalline Bedrock

12,000

Sedimentary and Foliated Rock

4,000

Sandy Gravel and/or Gravel
(GW and GP)

3,000

Sand, Silty Sand, Clayey Sand, Silty Gravel and Clayey Gravel
(SW, SP, SM, SC, GM and GC)

l,500b

Clay, Sandy Clay, Silty Clay, Clayey Silt, Silt and Sandy Silt
(CL, ML, MH and CH)

1,500b

 

      (2)   Section R403 Footings is amended as follows:

         R403.1 General is been amended by adding an exception to read
as follows:

         Exception: Existing patio and carports, 400 square feet or
less, that are enclosed and occupied as livable and/or non-livable areas
are not required to provide a continuous exterior footing when the
existing load bearing post and beam construction remain in place and a
thickened footer or pad are evident under the post.

   (E)   Chapter 5 Floors is amended as follows:

      Section R502.11.4 Truss Design Drawings. Truss design drawings,
prepared in compliance with Section 502.11.1, shall be submitted to the
building and safety manager and approved prior to permit issuance. (the
rest is the same)

   (F)   Chapter 6 Wall Construction is amended as follows

      Add Section R601.2.2 to the end of Section R601.

      R601.2.2 Framing Connections. Framing details for bearing walls
and posts shall be such that all components are tied together with
positive connections to transmit wind uplift forces from the roof to the
foundation. Nails loaded in withdrawal by such forces shall not be
considered as positive connections.

      Approved metal framing anchors shall be provided at the top and
bottom of every other stud of a wood-frame bearing wall, except where
structural panel sheathing is nailed directly to the studs, top plate
and bottom plate in accordance with Table R602.3(1). Floor-to-floor
connections shall have approved metal strap ties at a maximum of 48
inches on center, except where justified by an engineered analysis that
bears the seal of a registered design professional. Each truss, joist
and rafter shall be connected to the top plate of the supporting wall
with an approved metal framing anchor or other approved method. The
framing anchor shall be of the type that connects to both members of the
double top plate. Beams shall be anchored to supporting walls and posts
with approved metal framing connectors.

   (G)   Chapter 8 Roof-Ceiling Construction is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section R802.10.1. Truss Design Drawings. Truss design
drawings, prepared in conformance to Section 802.10.1, shall be provided
to the building official and approved prior to permit issuance. (the
rest is the same)

      (2)   Section R806.1 Ventilation is amended by adding the
following exception:

         Exception: Enclosed attic and rafter spaces are not required to
be ventilated where the height between the top of the ceiling material
and the bottom of the roof sheathing is no greater than 24 and radiant
barrier sheathing is installed at the roof.

   (H)   Chapter 9 Roof Assemblies is amended as follows:

      Section R905.5 Mineral-surfaced roll roofing, is revised by adding
the following:

         905.5.6 Drip edge.

         A drip edge shall be provided at eaves and rake edges. Adjacent
segments of drip edge shall overlap at least 2 inches (51 mm). Drip
edges shall extend at least 1/4 inch (6.4 mm) below the roof sheathing
and extend onto the roof deck at least 2 inches (51 mm). Drip edges
shall be fastened to the roof deck not less than 12 inches (305 mm) on
center with fasteners specified in Section R905.2.5. Underlayment shall
be installed over the drip edge along eaves, and under the drip edge
along rake edges.

   (I)   Chapter 10 Chimneys and Fireplaces is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section R1001.1 General is amended as follows:

         R1001.1 General. Masonry fireplaces shall be constructed in
accordance with this section and the provisions of Chapter 3 and 4, and
the Apache Junction City Code , Vol. I, Chapter 7 § 7-1-12 STANDARD FOR
FIREPLACES, WOOD STOVES AND OTHER SOLID FUEL BURNING DEVICES.

      (2)   Section R1004.1 General is amended as follows:

         R1004.1 General. Factory-built fireplaces shall be listed and
labeled and shall be installed in accordance with the conditions of the
listing, and the Apache Junction City Code Vol. I, Chapter 7, § 7-1-12
STANDARD FOR FIREPLACES, WOOD STOVES AND OTHER SOLID FUEL BURNING
DEVICES. Factory-built fireplaces shall be tested in accordance with UL
127.

   (J)   Chapter 26 General Plumbing Requirements

      Section P2603.5.1 is amended as follows:

         P2603.5.1 Sewer depth. Building sewers shall be not less than
12 inches below grade.

   (K)   Chapter 29 Water Supply and Distribution is amended as follows:

      (1)   IRC Table P2903.2 MAXIMUM FLOW RATES AND CONSUMPTION FOR
PLUMBING FIXTURES AND FIXTURE FITTINGS is amended as follows.

 

TABLE P2903.2: MAXIMUM FLOW RATES AND CONSUMPTION FOR PLUMBING FIXTURES
AND FIXTURE FITTINGSb

PLUMBING FIXTURE OR FIXTURE FITTING

MAXIMUM FLOW RATE OR QUANTITY

Lavatory faucet

1.5 gpm at 60 psi

Shower Head3

2.0 gpm at 80 psi

Sink faucet

2.0 gpm at 60 psi

Water closet

1.28 gallons per flushing cycle

Urinals

0.5 gallon per flushing cycle

Add footnotes:

c. A 1.6-gallon flush toilet is permitted where no other fixtures are
upstream of the drain line connection.

d. The effective flush volume of a dual-flush water closet is defined as
the composite, average flush volume of two reduced flushes and one full
flush.

      (2)   Section P2910 Nonpotable water systems is amended by adding
a subsection P2910.1.1 to read as follows:

         P2910.1.1 Conflicts. No reference to requirements for gray
water recycling systems in this section shall be construed as allowing
installations in violation of Arizona Department of Environmental
Quality requirements. Where conflicts exist between the requirements of
this section and the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality
requirements, the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality
requirements shall govern.

   (L)   APPENDIX H PATIO COVERS is amended as follows:

      (1)   Amend Title to APPENDIX H PATIO ROOMS.

      (2)   AH101.1 Scope. Patio rooms shall conform to the requirements
of Sections AH101 through AH106.

         AH101.2 Permitted uses. Patio rooms detached from or attached
to dwelling units shall be used only for recreational, outdoor living
purposes and not as carports, garages, storage rooms or habitable rooms.

      (3)   AH102.1 General. The following word and term shall, for the
purposes of this appendix, have the meaning shown herein. Refer to
Chapter 2 of this code for general definitions.

         PATIO ROOM. A structure with open or glazed walls that is used
for recreational, outdoor living purposes associated with a dwelling
unit.

      (4)   AH104.1 Height. Patio rooms are limited to one-story
structures not exceeding 12 feet in height.

      (5)   AH105.1 Design loads. Patio rooms shall be designed and
constructed to sustain, within the stress limits of the code, all dead
loads plus a vertical live load of 10 pounds per square foot (0.48
kN/M2) except that snow loads shall be used where such snow loads exceed
this minimum. Such patio rooms shall be designed to resist the minimum
wind and seismic loads set forth in Section R301.2.1.

      (6)   AH105.2 Footings. In areas with a frost depth of zero as
specified in Table R301.2(1), for patio rooms supported on a concrete
slab-on-grade without footings, the slab shall conform to the provisions
of Section R506, shall not be less than 3.5 inches (89 mm) thick, and
the columns shall not support live and dead loads in excess of 750
pounds (3.36 kn) per column.

(Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

ARTICLE 7-5: ELECTRICAL CODE

Section

   7-5-1   Adoption by reference

   7-5-2   Amendments to the 2017 National Electrical Code

§ 7-5-1 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.

   The following publication is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out at length in this Code: 2017 National Electrical Code, published by
the National Fire Protection Association, 54th Edition, August 2016.

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-5-2 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2017 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.

   (A)   ARTICLE 80 Title is added as follows:

      80.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Apache
Junction Electrical Code, may be cited as such and will be referred to
herein as “this Code.” For administration of this Code, refer to Vol. I,
Chapter 7, Article 7-1 Apache Junction Division of Building Safety and
Inspection Administrative Code.

   (B)   ARTICLE 100 Definitions is amended as follows:

      Revise Authority Having Jurisdiction to read as follows: The
Authority Having Jurisdiction (“AHJ”) is the Apache Junction Division of
Building Safety and Inspection.

      Revise Kitchen to read as follows: Kitchen (Commercial or
Institutional Kitchen and Bar areas). For the purposes of the Electrical
Code, a kitchen or bar is defined as any area where food or beverage is
prepared, served or dispensed.

   (C)   Article 230.70(B) Marking is amended to read as follows:

      230.70(B) Marking. Each service disconnect shall be permanently
marked to identify it as a service disconnect. Markings shall be of
sufficient durability to withstand the environment involved. Identifying
labels required for disconnecting means shall have engraved or raised
letters and be secured by screws or rivets (plastic tape shall not be
considered durable material).

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

ARTICLE 7-6: PLUMBING CODE

Section

   7-6-1   Adoption by reference

   7-6-2   Amendments to the 2018 International Plumbing Code

§ 7-6-1 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.

   The following publication is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out at length in this Code: 2018 International Plumbing Code, published
by the International Code Council, 2nd Printing, February 2018,
including, Appendix C - Structural Safety and Appendix E - Sizing of
Water Piping System.

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-6-2 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE.

   (A)   Section 101.1 of the 2018 International Plumbing Code is
amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:

      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Apache
Junction Plumbing Code, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”

   (B)   Sections 101.2 through 110.4 inclusive are deleted in their
entirety. See Vol. I, Chapter 7, Article 7-1, Division of Building
Safety and Inspection Administrative Code.

   (C)   Section 305.4.1 is amended as follows:

      305.4.1 Sewer depth. Building sewers shall be not less than 12
inches below grade.

   (D)   Section 424.1 Approval is amended by adding as follows:

      424.1.1 Water Supply. Waterless urinals shall have a water supply,
sufficient to supply a water-using urinal, roughed in within 12 inches
of a potential valve location. The rough-in can be enclosed behind the
finished wall.

   (E)   Revise Table 604.4 MAXIMUM FLOW RATES AND CONSUMPTION FOR
PLUMBING FIXTURES AND FIXTURE FITTINGS as follows:

 

  ------------------------------------- ---------------------------------
  PLUMBING FIXTURE OR FIXTURE FITTING   MAXIMUM FLOW RATE OR QUANTITY
  Lavatory, private                     1.5 gpm at 60 psi
  Lavatory, public (metering)           0.25 gallon per metering cycle
  Lavatory, public (non-metered)        0.5 gpm at 60 psi
  Shower head (including hand-held)     2.0 gpm at 80 psi
  Sink faucet                           2.0 gpm at 60 psi
  Urinal                                0.5 gallons per flushing cycle
  Water Closet                          1.28 gallons per flushing cycle
  ------------------------------------- ---------------------------------

         Add footnotes:

         c. A 1.6-gallon flush toilet is permitted where no other
fixtures are upstream of the drain line connection.

         d. The effective flush volume of a dual-flush water closet is
defined as the composite, average flush volume of two reduced flushes
and one full flush. In public settings, the maximum water use of a dual
flush water closet is based solely on its flush operation, not the
average of full and reduced volume flushes.

 

   (F)   Section 903.1 Roof extension is amended as follows

      903.1 Roof extension. Open vent pipes that extend through a roof
shall be terminated not less than 6 inches above the roof and not less
than 12 inches horizontally from any vertical surface. Where a roof is
to be used for assembly occupancy, or as a promenade, observation deck,
sunbathing deck or similar purposes, vent pipes shall terminate not less
than 9 feet above the deck and be properly supported and protected
against damage or blockage.

   (G)   Section 1106 Size of Conductors, Leaders and Storm Drains is
amended as follows:

      1106.1 General. The size of the vertical conductors and leaders,
building storm drains, building storm sewers, and any horizontal
branches of such drains or sewers shall be based on an hourly rainfall
rate of three (3) inches per hour.

   (H)   Section 1106.5 Parapet Wall Scuppers is amended as follows:

      Add the following to the end of Section 1106.5: “Roof drainage
scuppers and/or overflow scuppers shall not discharge within 3 feet
horizontally of the nearest edge of an electrical service or panel, or
gas service, unless the discharge is through an enclosed drain.”

   (I)   Delete Section 1109.

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

ARTICLE 7-7: MECHANICAL CODE

Section

   7-7-1   Adoption by reference

   7-7-2   Amendments to the 2018 International Mechanical Code

§ 7-7-1 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.

   The following publication is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out at length in this Code: 2018 International Mechanical Code,
published by the International Code Council, 2nd Printing, October 2018.

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-7-2 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.

   (A)   Section 101.1 of the 2018 International Mechanical Code is
amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:

      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Apache
Junction Mechanical Code, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”

   (B)   Sections 101.2 through 110.4 inclusive are deleted in their
entirety. See Vol. I, Chapter 7, Article 7-1, Division of Building
Safety and Inspection Administrative Code.

   (C)   Section 307.2.2 Drain pipe materials and sizes shall be amended
as follows:

      Add new subsection 307.2.2.1 Exterior condensate piping.
Condensate disposal lines run on top of roofs, or on the exterior walls
of a building shall be rated for ultraviolet exposure and elevated
temperatures. Where piping is manifolded together accommodations for
expansion and contraction shall be made to prevent damage or breakage.

   (D)   Delete Section 309.1 and replace with the following:

      309.1 Equipment and systems. Interior spaces intended for human
occupancy shall be provided with heating per Section 309.1.1 and cooling
per Section 309.1.2.

         309.1.1 Heating

         Heating facilities shall be provided, capable of maintaining
room temperature at 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
toilet rooms, based on the winter design temperature of 34°F (01°C) for
Phoenix, per Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code. Cooking
appliances shall not be used to provide space heating to meet the
requirements of this section.

         Exceptions: Heating systems are not required for:

            1. Interior spaces where the primary purpose of the space is
not associated with human comfort.

            2. Group F, H, S or U occupancies.

         309.1.2 Cooling

         Cooling facilities shall be provided, capable of maintaining
room temperature at 85°F (29°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
toilet rooms, based on the summer design temperature of 107°F (42°C) for
Phoenix, per Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code.

         Exceptions: Cooling systems are not required for:

            1. Interior spaces where the primary purpose of the space is
not associated with human comfort.

            2. Group F, H, S or U occupancies.

   (E)   Delete and replace 402.1 Natural ventilation with the
following:

      402.1 Natural ventilation. Natural ventilation of an occupied
space in residential buildings shall be through windows, doors, louvers
or other openings to the outdoors. The operating mechanism for such
openings shall be provided with ready access so that the openings are
readily controllable by the building occupants. Natural ventilation of
commercial buildings shall be through permanently fixed openings to the
outdoors.

   (F)   Add new Section 407.2 Special Inspection.

      Section 407.2 Special Inspection. Mechanical systems designed and
installed in accordance with ASHRAE 170-2017 shall be verified by a
qualified third party Special Inspector. The Special Inspector/testing
agency shall be an independent third party individual or firm and shall
not be the installing contractor. A report shall be generated by the
third party individual or firm showing compliance. Special inspections
shall be as specified in Chapter 17 of the International Building Code
as amended.

   (G)   Add new Section 408 MARIJUANA RELATED OCCUPANCIES as follows:

      Section 408 MARIJUANA RELATED OCCUPANCIES

         408.1 General. Any building used to cultivate, produce, infuse
or dispense marijuana shall be designed such that there shall be no
emission of dust, fumes, vapors, or odors into the environment from the
premise. A ventilation system shall be designed to prevent the
distribution of odors to other occupied parts of the building or
adjacent properties. Design of the odor control system shall be based on
accepted engineering practices. All equipment and filter media shall be
listed and labeled for the application. Exhaust systems used in odor
control systems shall meet the requirements of Section 501.

            408.1.1 Exhaust outlets. The termination point for exhaust
outlets shall be in accordance with Section 501.3. Exhaust from
cultivation and production facilities shall be in accordance with
Section 501.3.1(2) and for dispensaries in accordance with Section
501.3.1(3).

   (H)   Add new Section 502.21 Storage and use of liquid carbon dioxide
(CO2) systems as follows:

      Section 502.21 Storage and use of liquid carbon dioxide (CO2)
systems. Insulated liquid carbon dioxide (CO2) systems with more than
100 pounds (45.4 kg) of carbon dioxide used in beverage dispensing
applications shall comply with Fire Code Section 5307.3.

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

ARTICLE 7-8: FUEL GAS CODE

Section

   7-8-1   Adoption by reference

   7-8-2   Amendments to the 2018 International Fuel Gas Code.

§ 7-8-1 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.

   The following publication is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out at length in this Code: 2018 International Fuel Gas Code, published
by the International Code Council, 2nd Printing, April 2018, including:

   (A)   Appendix A - Sizing and Capacities of Gas Piping,

   (B)   Appendix B - Sizing of Venting Systems Serving Appliances
Equipped with Draft Hoods, Category I Appliances, and Appliances Listed
for Use with Type B Vents,

   (C)   Appendix C - Exit Terminals of Mechanical Draft and Duct
Systems, and

   (D)   Appendix D - Recommended Procedure for Safety Inspection of an
Existing Appliance Installation.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-8-2 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE.

   (A)   Section 101.1 of the 2018 International Fuel Gas Code is
amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:

      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Apache
Junction Fuel Gas Code, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”

   (B)   Sections 101.3 through 110.4 inclusive are deleted in their
entirety. See Vol. I, Chapter 7, Article 7-1, Division of Building
Safety and Inspection Administrative Code.

   (C)   Delete the last sentence of Section 406.4 and add the
following:

      Tests required by this code that are performed utilizing dial
gauges shall be limited to gauges having the following pressure
graduations or incrementations:

         Required pressure tests of ten (10) pounds (69kPa) or less
shall be performed with gauges of one-tenth (1/10) pound (0.7 kPa)
incrementation or less.

         Required pressure tests exceeding ten (10) pounds (69kPa) but
less than one hundred (100) pounds (689 kPa) shall be performed with
gauges of one (1) pound (6.9 kPa) incrementation or less.

         Required pressure tests exceeding one hundred (100) pounds (689
kPa) shall be performed with gauges incremented for two percent (2%) or
less of the required test pressure.

      Test gauges shall have a pressure range not greater than twice the
test pressure applied.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

ARTICLE 7-9: FIRE CODE

Section

   7-9-1   Adoption by reference

   7-9-2   Amendments to the 2018 International Fire Code

§ 7-9-1 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.

   The following publication is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out at length in this Code: 2018 International Fire Code, published by
the International Code Council, 1st Printing, August 2017, including:

   (A)   Appendix B - Fire-Flow Requirements for Buildings,

   (B)   Appendix C - Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution,

   (C)   Appendix D - Fire Apparatus Roads,

   (D)   Appendix E - Hazard Categories,

   (E)   Appendix F - Hazard Ranking, and

   (F)   Appendix I - Fire Protection Systems - Noncompliant Conditions.

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-9-2 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.

   (A)   CHAPTER 1 SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section 101.1 of the 2018 International Fire Code is amended
to read, in its entirety, as follows:

         101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Apache
Junction Fire Code, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”

      (2)   Sections 101.2 through 113.1 inclusive are deleted in their
entirety. See Vol. I, Chapter 7, Article 7-1, Division of Building
Safety and Inspection Administrative Code.

   (B)   CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS is amended as follows:

      The following definitions have been added or amended to read as
follows:

      ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE FACILITY (A.R.S. § 36-401). A facility that
provides adult day health services during a portion of a continuous
twenty-four-hour period for compensation on a regular basis for five or
more adults who are not related to the proprietor. (added)

      ADULT DAY HEALTH SERVICES (A.R.S. § 36-401). A program that
provides planned care supervision and activities, personal care,
personal living skills training, meals and health monitoring in a group
setting during a portion of a continuous twenty-four-hour period. Adult
day health services may also include preventive, therapeutic and
restorative health-related services that do not include behavioral
health services. (added)

      ADULT DEVELOPMENTAL HOME (A.R.S. § 36-551). A residential setting
in a family home in which the care, physical custody and supervision of
the adult client are the responsibility, under a twenty-four-hour care
model, of the licensee who, in that capacity, is not an employee of the
division or of a service provider and the home provides the following
services for a group of siblings or up to three adults with
developmental disabilities- room and board, habilitation, appropriate
personal care and appropriate supervision. (added)

      ADULT FOSTER CARE HOME (A.R.S. § 36-401). A residential setting
that provides room and board and adult foster care services for at least
one and no more than four adults who are participants in the Arizona
long-term care system pursuant to chapter 29, article 2 of this title or
contracts for services with the United States department of veterans
affairs and in which the sponsor or the manager resides with the
residents and integrates the residents who are receiving adult foster
care into that person’s family. (added)

      ADULT FOSTER CARE SERVICES (A.R.S. § 36-401). Supervision,
assistance with eating, bathing, toileting, dressing, self-medication
and other routines of daily living or services authorized by rules
adopted pursuant to A.R.S. § 36-405 and A.R.S. § 36-2939C. (added)

      ASSISTED LIVING CENTER (A.R.S. § 36-401). An assisted living
facility that provides resident rooms or residential units to eleven or
more residents. (added)

      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY (A.R.S. § 36-401). A residential care
institution, including an adult foster care home, that provides or
contracts to provide supervisory care services, personal care services
or directed care services on a continuous basis. (added)

      ASSISTED LIVING HOME (A.R.S. § 36-401). An assisted living
facility that provides resident rooms to ten or fewer residents. (added)

      BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICES. Services that pertain to mental health
and substance use disorders.

      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SETTING (A.R.S. § 36-551). A residential
setting in which persons with developmental disabilities live and are
provided with appropriate supervision by the service provider
responsible for the operation of the residential setting. Community
residential setting includes a child developmental home or an adult
developmental home operated or contracted by the Department or the
Department’s contracted vendor or a group home operated or contracted by
the Department. (added)

      DIRECTED CARE SERVICE (A.R.S. § 36-401). Programs and services,
including supervisory and personal care services that are provided to
persons who are incapable of recognizing danger, summoning assistance,
expressing need, or making basic care decisions. (added)

      EXISTING BUILDING. See definition in Vol. I, § 7-1-2(F). (delete
and replace)

      EXISTING STRUCTURE. A structure in existence prior to 1985, or
constructed 1985 or later under an issued building permit, which has
passed all required inspections. (delete and replace)

      GROUP HOME (A.R.S. § 36-551). A community residential setting for
not more than six persons with developmental disabilities that is
operated by a service provider under contract with the Department and
that provides room and board and daily habilitation, and other assessed
medically necessary services and supports to meet the needs of each
person. Group home does not include an adult developmental home, a child
developmental home or an intermediate care facility for persons with an
intellectual disability. (delete and replace)

      GROUP TREATMENT HOME. A facility for social rehabilitation,
substance abuse or mental health problems that contains a group housing
arrangement that provides custodial care but does not provide medical
care. (amended)

      HEALTH CARE INSTITUTION (A.R.S. § 36-401). Every place,
institution, building or agency, whether organized for profit or not,
that provides facilities with medical services, nursing services,
behavioral health services, health screening services, other
health-related services, supervisory care services, personal care
services or directed care services and includes home health agencies as
defined in A.R.S. § 36-151, outdoor behavioral health care programs and
hospice service agencies. Health care institution does not include a
community residential setting as defined in A.R.S. § 36-551. (added)

      INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH AN INTELLECTUAL
DISABILITY (A.R.S. § 36-551). A facility that primarily provides health
and rehabilitative services to persons with developmental disabilities
that are above the service level of room and board or supervisory care
services or personal care services as defined in A.R.S. § 36-401 but
that are less intensive than skilled nursing services. (added)

      LICENSED CAPACITY (A.R.S. § 36-401). The total number of persons
for whom the health care institution is authorized by the Department to
provide services as required pursuant to this chapter if the person is
expected to stay in the health care institution for more than
twenty-four hours. (added)

      NURSING CARE INSTITUTION (A.R.S. § 36-401). A health care
institution that provides inpatient beds or resident beds and nursing
services to persons who need continuous nursing services but who do not
require hospital care or direct daily care from a physician.

      NURSING HOMES. See Nursing Care Institution.

      PERSONAL CARE SERVICE. Assistance with activities of daily living
that can be performed by persons without professional skills or
professional training and includes the coordination or provision of
intermittent nursing services and the administration of medications and
treatments by a nurse who is licensed pursuant to A.R.S. Title 32,
Chapter 15 or as otherwise provided by law. (delete and replace)

      RESIDENTIAL CARE INSTITUTION. A health care institution other than
a hospital or a nursing care institution that provides resident beds or
residential units, supervisory care services, personal care services,
behavioral health services, directed care services or health-related
services for persons who do not need continuous nursing services.
(Added)

      SUPERVISORY CARE SERVICE. General supervision, including daily
awareness of resident functioning and continuing needs, the ability to
intervene in a crisis and assistance in the self-administration of
prescribed medications. (added)

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

ARTICLE 7-10: EXISTING BUILDING CODE

Section

   7-10-1   Adoption by reference

   7-10-2   Amendments to the 2018 International Existing Building Code

§ 7-10-1 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.

   The following publication is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out at length in this Code: 2018 International Existing Building Code,
published by the International Code Council, 2nd Printing, May 2018.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-10-2 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.

   (A)   Section 101.1 of the 2018 International Existing Building Code
is amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:

      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Apache
Junction Existing Building Code, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”

   (B)   Sections 101.2 through 117.4 inclusive are deleted in their
entirety. See Vol. I, Chapter 7, Article 7-1, Division of Building
Safety and Inspection Administrative Code.

   (C)   Add Section 201.5 Conflict. Where definitions conflict between
this code and the Building Code, the Building Code definitions shall be
used.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

ARTICLE 7-11: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE

Section

   7-11-1   Adoption by reference

   7-11-2   Amendments to the 2018 International Energy Conservation
Code

§ 7-11-1 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.

   The following publication is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out at length in this Code: 2018 International Energy Conservation Code,
published by the International Code Council, 1st Printing, August 2017.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-11-2 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.

   (A)   CHAPTER 1 SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION [CE] is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section C101.1 of the 2018 International Energy Conservation
Code is amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:

         C101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Apache
Junction Commercial and Low-rise Multi-family Energy Code, hereinafter
referred to as “this code.”

      (2)   Sections C104.1 through C109.3 inclusive are deleted in
their entirety. See Vol. I, Chapter 7, Article 7-1, Division of Building
Safety and Inspection Administrative Code.

      (3)   Sections R103.5 through R109.3 inclusive are deleted in
their entirety. See Vol. I, Chapter 7, Article 7-1, Division of Building
Safety and Inspection Administrative Code.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

ARTICLE 7-12: SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE

Section

   7-12-1   Adoption by reference

   7-12-2   Amendments to the 2018 International Swimming Pool and Spa
Code

§ 7-12-1 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.

   The following publication is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out at length in this Code: 2018 International Swimming Pool and Spa
Code, published by the International Code Council, 1st Printing, August
2017.

(Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

§ 7-12-2 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA
CODE.

   (A)   CHAPTER 1 SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section 101.1 of the 2018 International Swimming Pool and
Spa Code is amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:

         101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Apache
Junction Swimming Pool and Spa Code, hereinafter referred to as “this
code.”

      (2)   Sections 101.3 through 108.7 inclusive are deleted in their
entirety. See Vol. I, Chapter 7, Article 7-1, Division of Building
Safety and Inspection Administrative Code.

   (B)   CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS.

      Section 202 The definitions for “onground storable pool” and
“residential swimming pool” are amended to read as follows:

      ONGROUND STORABLE POOL: A pool that can be disassembled for
storage or transport including any structure intended for swimming or
recreational bathing that is capable of holding water over 18 inches
(457.2 mm) deep. This includes portable pools with flexible or nonrigid
walls that achieve their structural integrity by means of uniform shape,
a support frame or a combination thereof, and that can be disassembled
for storage or relocation.

      RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL (Residential Pool): A pool intended for
use that is accessory to a residential setting and available only to the
household and its guests including any structure intended for swimming
or recreational bathing that contains water over 18 inches (457.2 mm)
deep. This includes in-ground, above ground and on-ground swimming
pools, hot tubs, spas and fixed in place wading pools. All other pools
shall be considered public pools for purposes of this code.

         Types I-V. Residential pools suitable for the installation of
diving equipment by type.

         Type O. A nondiving residential pool.

   (C)   CHAPTER 3 GENERAL COMPLIANCE is amended as follows:

      (1)   Section 305.2.1 Barrier height and clearances, number 1 is
amended to read as follows:

         305.2.1 Barrier height and clearances. Barrier heights and
clearances shall be in accordance with all of the following:

            1. The top of the barrier shall be not less than 60 inches
(1,524 mm) above grade where measured on the side of the barrier that
faces away from the pool or spa. Such height shall exist around the
entire perimeter of the barrier and for a distance of 4 feet (1,219 mm)
measured horizontally from the outside of the required barrier.

      (2)   Section 305.2.7 Chain link dimensions is amended to read as
follows:

         305.2.7 Chain link dimensions. The maximum opening formed by a
chain link fence shall be not more than 1 % inches (44 mm). Where the
fence is provided with slats fastened at the top and bottom that reduce
the openings, such openings shall be not greater than 1 % inches (44
mm). The wire making up the fence shall not be less than 11 gauge.

      (3)   Section 305.4 Structure wall as a barrier is amended by
adding item 4 to read as follows:

         4. Multi panel sliding doors or walls shall meet the
requirements of ISPSC 305.4(1) or shall be secured in place by a
permanent fastening method that requires a tool to remove. If a sliding
glass door or panel is the only door to the pool area, it shall meet the
requirements of ISPSC 305.4(1).

(Am. Ord. 1273, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 6-19-2019)

CHAPTER 8: BUSINESS

      Article

         8-1.   GENERAL BUSINESS AND LICENSING PROVISIONS

         8-2.   SPECIFIC LICENSING AND REGISTRATION PROVISIONS

         8-3.   PEDDLERS

         8-4.   AUCTIONS, PAWNSHOPS AND SECOND HAND DEALERS

         8-5.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS

         8-6.   SWAP MEET OPERATIONS

         8-7.   YARD SALES

         8-8.   REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMUNITY AND CIVIC EVENTS

         8-9.   SALES WITHIN MOBILE HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS,
MOBILE HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SUBDIVISIONS AND ALL OTHER
RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS

         8-10.   MOBILE AND TEMPORARY FOOD AND BEVERAGE VENDORS

         8-11.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS OPERATORS, MANAGERS, ADULT
SERVICE PROVIDERS AND EMPLOYEES

         8-12.   NON-PRESCRIPTION PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT SALES

ARTICLE 8-1: GENERAL BUSINESS AND LICENSING PROVISIONS

Section

   8-1-1   Definitions

   8-1-2   City Clerk; duties

   8-1-3   Other regulatory provisions

   8-1-4   Criminal penalties

§ 8-1-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   ADVERTISEMENT. The attempt by publication, dissemination,
solicitation, signage or circulation to induce directly or indirectly
any person to enter into any transaction with persons conducting
business activities within or outside the city.

   APPROPRIATE LICENSE. A privilege tax or use tax license that has been
issued pursuant to the provisions of Apache Junction Tax Code, Chapter
8A, Article III, Licensing and Recordkeeping; or a business or
non-profit license that has been issued pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.

   A.R.S. Arizona Revised Statutes.

   BUSINESS ACTIVITY. To practice, transact or carry on any trade,
business, game or amusement, calling, profession or occupation, or the
renting, leasing or licensing for use of real property with the object
of gain, benefit or advantage.

   BUSINESS LICENSE. A license issued to a person conducting a business
activity within the city.

   CARNIVAL COMPANY. A collection of shows, exhibitions, feats of
strength, merchandise booths, games of skill, fortunetelling, games of
chance, wheels of fortune or any other amusement device presented or
offered upon the streets or vacant property within the city, other than
circuses, animal shows or side shows with circuses.

   CASUAL ACTIVITY or SALE. A transaction of an isolated nature made by
a person who neither represents himself or herself to be nor is engaged
in a business activity. CASUAL ACTIVITY never includes the sale, rental,
leasing or licensing for use of real property; nor does it include the
sale of merchandise purchased or manufactured for the purpose of resale.

   CITY. The City of Apache Junction.

   CLERK. The City Clerk or designee.

   DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY. The department within the city
responsible for the protection of life and property and for the
enforcement of the laws of the State of Arizona and the City of Apache
Junction.

   LICENSE. A business or non-profit license.

   LOCATION. A place of a separate business establishment, but licensing
does not apply to persons solely renting or leasing residential real
property.

   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business or establishment
conducting business activity wherein any massage therapy techniques are
administered, practiced or used.

   MASSAGE THERAPIST. An individual who is either licensed or
specifically exempted under A.R.S. Title 32, Chapter 42.

   MERCHANDISE. Any new or used object, wares, goods, commodities,
personalty and intangibles, real estate, amusements, food concessions or
services.

   NON-PROFIT BUSINESS. A person who is either:

      (1)   A federally exempt organization which has received a
determination of exemption under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c); or

      (2)   The federal government, the State of Arizona, any other
state or any political subdivision, department or agency; or

      (3)   A public educational entity operated pursuant to any
provision of A.R.S. Title 15.

   NON-PROFIT LICENSE. A license issued to a person conducting
non-profit activities within the city.

   NON-TAXABLE BUSINESS ACTIVITY. A person conducting business activity
within the city, the income of which is not taxable in whole or in part
pursuant to any section in Apache Junction Tax Code, Chapter 8A, Article
IV, or which meets the provisions of Apache Junction Tax Code, Chapter
8A, § 8A-460(c)(4).

   PEDDLER. Any person operating as a solicitor, peddler, hawker,
salesperson, vendor of goods, wares, merchandise, newspapers, magazines
or services, and who goes from door-to-door, business to business, or to
only one door or business in the city; or who offers such items for sale
along a parade route or on real property other than their own.

   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, estate, trust, receiver, syndicate, broker, limited
liability company, the federal government, this state, any political
subdivision or agency of this state, or such person’s legal
representative. PERSONS affiliated through common ownership, or where
one person owns another person, are considered separate PERSONS for
licensing purposes.

   PREMISES. Any building, structure, lot or other area at which
business activity is conducted. When the premise involves a building or
structure, that premises shall include all outside areas including the
parking lot.

   PRIVILEGE LICENSE. A license issued pursuant to the provisions of
Apache Junction Tax Code, Chapter 8A, Article III, Licensing and
Recordkeeping to a person conducting taxable business activity within
the city.

   SALE. A transaction of any type where the title or ownership of
tangible personal property or real property exchanges hands for a
consideration of any type; or where the promise or completion of a
service is exchanged for a consideration of any type.

   STREET BALLYHOO. Any person advertising by means of any vehicle
containing amplifiers, phonographs, loudspeakers, music rolls,
microphones, broadcasting, radio, public address system or music of any
description, operating upon the public streets or public grounds of the
city.

   TAXABLE BUSINESS ACTIVITY. A person engaged in business within the
city, the income of which in whole or in part is taxable pursuant to any
section in Apache Junction Tax Code, Chapter 8A, Article IV.

   TEMPORARY LOCATION. Operating the same kind of business, for which a
business license has been issued, at such location for no more than 7
consecutive days, except that mobile and temporary food and beverage
vendors shall be limited to the times as set forth in Article 8-10 of
this code.

   VALID. Any license subject to the provisions of this chapter that has
not expired or has not been suspended, cancelled or revoked.

   VENDOR. Any person soliciting or making a sale, or causing any
advertisement for a product or service.

   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The city official who initially determines
zoning and land development compliance, as appointed by the development
services director.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017; Am. Ord. 1564, passed 5-20-2025)

§ 8-1-2 CITY CLERK; DUTIES.

   (A)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the City Clerk to
administer the provisions of this chapter and pursuant to this duty
shall issue, renew, deny, suspend, cancel or revoke privilege, use,
business and non-profit licenses.

   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to file complaints with
the City Attorney against all persons violating any of the provisions of
this chapter.

   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to prepare and issue an
appropriate license for every person required to pay a license fee, and
to state in each license the amount thereof, the period of time covered
thereby, the name of the person for whom issued, the specific business
activities conducted by the licensee, and the location and place of
business where the business activities are carried on.

   (D)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, or deputy, before
issuing a license under this chapter to require from every applicant a
sworn application, on a form to be furnished by the city.

   (E)   The City Clerk may appoint license inspectors, and it shall be
the duty of such inspector to inspect places of business activity
subject to the provisions of this chapter and Apache Junction Tax Code,
Chapter 8A, and report all violations to the city clerk.

   (F)   No greater or lesser amount of license and/or registration fee
shall be charged or received for any license issued hereunder than is
provided for in this chapter, and no license shall be issued for any
period of time other than as provided in this chapter.

   (G)   In no case shall any mistake made by the City Clerk in stating,
fixing or collecting the amount of any license and/or registration fee
prevent, prejudice or estop the city from collecting the correct amount
due as provided by this chapter.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-1-3 OTHER REGULATORY PROVISIONS.

   (A)   Where any business activity is subjected to a certificate of
health or sanitary examination, before any license is issued, the
applicant must produce such certificate or permit from the appropriate
county health department, as provided for in A.R.S. Title 36, Article 4
as amended.

   (B)   No license may be issued until the zoning administrator has
provided preliminary verification that the business is in an approved
zone. The zoning administrator shall furnish such verification within 5
city business days of the request.

   (C)   In the event the Zoning Administrator subsequently disapproves
the formal zoning certificate, the City Clerk shall revoke the person’s
appropriate license.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-1-4 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be
deemed guilty of a class one misdemeanor and, shall upon conviction, be
punished pursuant to the provisions of the Apache Junction City Code,
Vol. I, Chapter 1: General, Article 1-1: General, § 1-1-11 Penalty.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

ARTICLE 8-2: SPECIFIC LICENSING AND REGISTRATION PROVISIONS

Section

   8-2-1   License required

   8-2-2   Issuance of license by Clerk; contents

   8-2-3   General rules

   8-2-4   Peddler registration required

   8-2-5   Application to City Clerk

   8-2-6   Licensing; fees

   8-2-7   Permits; fees

   8-2-8   Delinquency penalty

   8-2-9   Unlawful activities

   8-2-10   Suspension, revocation and cancellation of license

   8-2-11   Notice of hearing and appeal

   8-2-12   Exemption

§ 8-2-1 LICENSE REQUIRED.

   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, association,
company or corporation to commence, transact or carry on any trade,
business, game or amusement, calling, profession or occupation, as set
out in this article, without first having procured a license from the
city to do so, or without complying with any and all regulations of such
trade, business, game or amusement, calling, profession or occupation
designated in this article.

   (B)   The practice, transaction or carrying on of any trade,
business, game or amusement, calling, profession or occupation specified
in this article without complying with any and all regulations of such
trades, businesses, games or amusements, callings, professions or
occupations, contained in this article shall constitute a separate
violation of this article for each and every day that such trade,
business, game or amusement, calling, profession or occupation is
practiced, transacted or carried on.

   (C)   The granting of a license is not deemed as evidence or proof
that the licensee has complied with the provisions of this article or
other provisions of the Apache Junction City Code or Apache Junction Tax
Code, nor shall it stop the prosecution by the city for any violation of
the Apache Junction City Code or Apache Junction Tax Code.

   (D)   A license shall be required for each business. For instance, if
a person, partnership, association, company, or corporation conducts two
separate businesses (i.e., a travel agency and a blacksmith shop), then
two licenses shall be required. This requirement shall be applicable to
situations where two or more businesses are being operated in the same
location.

   (E)   Should questions as to form of business arise, interpretations
of this section shall be based upon form indicia contained in the
following: Arizona Revised Statutes; Internal Revenue Code and Rules and
Regulations prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service.

   (F)   All transfers of ownership shall be considered to be a new
business and, as such, shall be required to obtain a valid, current
business license and pay a fee in accordance with the schedule for new
businesses listed herein.

   (G)   Any person conducting a taxable business activity shall also
obtain a privilege tax or use tax license and pay the appropriate
licensing fees pursuant to the provisions of Apache Junction Tax Code,
Chapter 8A, Article III, Licensing and Recordkeeping.

   (H)   Any federally exempt organization who has unrelated business
income as defined in 26 U.S.C. § 512 from any business activity.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017) Penalty, See Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 8-2-2 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE BY CLERKS; CONTENTS.

   (A)   It shall be the duty of the clerk, or deputy, to prepare and
issue a license under this article for every person required to pay a
license fee hereunder, and to state in each license the amount thereof,
the period of time covered thereby, the name of the person for whom
issued, the trade, business, game or amusement, calling, profession or
occupation licensed and the location and place of business where such
trade, business, game or amusement, calling, profession or occupation is
to be practiced, transacted or carried on.

   (B)   It shall be the duty of the clerk, or deputy, before issuing a
license under this article to require from every applicant a sworn
application, on a form to be furnished by the clerk, which shall give
the following information: business trade name, location of business,
business mailing address, business owner, home street address, home
telephone number, business telephone number, exact nature of business,
date business began in the city and any other state or federal
requirement information, signature of applicant certifying his
statements are true and correct and title of applicant.

   (C)   If the business is to be located within the city limits, a
zoning compliance certificate must be obtained from the zoning
administrator of the city before a license can be issued.

   (D)   Upon verification by the zoning administrator that the business
is in the approved zone, the clerk may issue a license to the applicant
before the formal zoning compliance certificate is approved by the
zoning administrator and that the determination from the zoning
administrator concerning the zoning compliance certificate be
forthcoming in a period not to exceed 5 city business days.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-2-3 GENERAL RULES.

   (A)   Any person having a privilege tax or use tax license shall also
have a city business license and shall pay the appropriate license fee
if it is found that such person is conducting taxable business activity
within the city unless such business license is prohibited by state or
federal law.

   (B)   No person may apply for a license for another person, and no
licensee may allow another person to use his or her license. All
licenses issued hereunder shall be nontransferable and nonassignable.

   (C)   A person engaged in or conducting 1 or more businesses at 2 or
more locations, or under 2 or more business names shall procure a
license for each such location or business name.

   (D)   A new license is not required when a licensee has an address
change; however, such licensee niust provide the city clerk with written
certification that the licensee had changed business locations.

   (E)   A separate license is not required for each type of business
activity provided that the each type of business activity is conducted
by the same person, using the same business name, and at the same
business location. Every person shall have his or her license updated
with the city clerk before engaging in any new business activity.

   (F)   Should questions arise as to form of business, interpretations
of this chapter shall be based upon form indicia contained in the
following: Apache Junction Tax Code, Chapter 8A, Arizona Revised
Statutes; Internal Revenue Code; and rules and regulations prescribed by
the Internal Revenue Service.

   (G)   All transfers of ownership, including changes in type of
business entity, shall be considered to be a new business and, as such,
shall be required to obtain an appropriate license and pay the required
license fee.

   (H)   An appropriate license shall be displayed in a conspicuous
place at each business or operating location. This division does not
apply to persons solely renting, leasing or licensing for use of real
property. Licensees conducting business activity at temporary locations
shall have available either the license or a copy of the license at the
temporary location. Every person having a license under the provisions
of this article shall produce and exhibit the license upon demand by any
city police officer or city tax and licensing official.

   (I)   No license issued by the city shall be presumed to apply to any
business activity which is a part of interstate commerce; or which such
business activity is conducted as an agency or department of the United
States government for which the government has failed to make provisions
allowing states and municipalities to so license.

   (J)   The granting of a license is not deemed as evidence or proof
that the licensee has complied with the provisions of this chapter, or
other provisions of the Apache Junction City Code, nor shall it stop the
prosecution by the city for any violation of the Apache Junction City
Code.

   (K)   A business license shall be valid for a 12 month period from
the month of issue and during such time period the payment shall not be
pro-rated.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-2-4 PEDDLER REGISTRATION REQUIRED.

   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions in A.J.C.C. Vol. I, § 8-2-1, any
person operating as a peddler shall register with the city clerk and
obtain an identification card showing the registration.

   (B)   Applicants for registration shall be required to furnish 2
recent satisfactory photographs of the applicant, one to be attached to
the applicant’s identification card and the other to be retained by the
City Clerk’s Office. In the event the applicant is unable to supply such
photographs, photographs will be supplied by the city clerk’s office for
a fee of $3 each. The City Clerk shall require the applicant to file his
or her fingerprint identification with the City Clerk’s Office.

   (C)   Peddlers applying for registration shall be required to furnish
to the city clerk’s office a complete description of the product to be
sold in the city, together with information regarding sales methods to
be used and references that will enable the City Clerk to determine
whether or not the applicant is qualified to receive an identification
card as provided herein.

   (D)   If approved, issuance of an identification card under the
provisions of this article shall be completed within 15 city business
days after the applicant has given the required information.

   (E)   Identification cards under this article shall be issued upon
payment of a $25 registration fee for each person operating as a peddler
and shall be valid for the duration of the related license, unless the
City Clerk discovers any of the following:

      (1)   He or she has a criminal record;

      (2)   He or she is associated with a company that has engaged in
fraudulent dealings; or

      (3)   The proposed sales proposition includes some element of
trickery, fraud or deceit.

   (F)   Identification cards shall be assigned the same status and
duration as the person’s related license: active, suspended, canceled or
revoked.

   (G)   Identification cards issued under the provisions of this
article may be suspended, cancelled or revoked pursuant to the
provisions of A.J.C.C. Vol. I, § 8-2-8 subject to hearing and appeal
pursuant to the provisions of A.J.C.C. Vol. I, § 8-2-10.

   (H)   Peddlers wishing to continue peddling activities within the
city shall apply for a new identification card upon expiration of the
current identification card.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-2-5 APPLICATION TO CITY CLERK.

   (A)   An application for a license and/or identification card under
this article shall be made on forms furnished by the city. Every
application shall be accompanied by an application fee in the amount
provided in A.J.C.C. Vol. I, § 8-2-6. In the event a license and/or
identification card is not issued, the application fee shall not be
refunded but shall be applied to cover the cost of processing the
application.

   (B)   All licenses shall be valid only for 1 year from the date
issued unless renewed each year by paying the appropriate fee(s) on or
before the last city business day of the month prior to the annual
anniversary of the original issuance of such license. Payment for
renewal must be received within the City Clerk’s office by such date to
be deemed filed and paid.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-2-6 LICENSING; FEES.

   (A)   The business license fee set out in the following schedule is
hereby established for all business activities.

   (B)   In addition to the fee in (A) above, for taxable business
activities the transaction privilege tax and use tax license fee shall
be as set forth in Apache Junction Tax Code, Chapter 8A, Article III,
Licensing and Recordkeeping.

   (C)   Notwithstanding any other required fee, all dealers in
alcoholic beverages shall submit a $50 non-refundable application fee to
the city prior to the council public hearing on the state liquor license
application to cover the cost of conducting such public hearing. This
fee shall apply to all new, owner-transfer, person-transfer, and
location-transfer applications.

   (D)   A massage therapist operating as an independent contractor
within the city and not as an employee of a massage establishment shall
obtain shall obtain the appropriate license pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter.

   (E)   In any action brought under or arising out of any of the
provisions of this article, the fact that the person (defendant) is
engaged in any business activity for which a license is required by this
article, or that the party has conducted an advertisement for such
activity shall be prima facie evidence of such party’s liability to pay
the required fee.

   (F)   The conviction and punishment of any person for conducting any
business activity without a license shall not excuse or exempt such
person from the payment of any license fee due or unpaid at the time of
such conviction.

   (G)   The fee schedule for licenses issued under this chapter shall
be as follows:

 

  ---------------------------------- ------------- -------------
  Type of License                    Initial Fee   Renewal Fee
  Business license (basic)           $50           $50
  Duplicate or replacement license   $25           $25
  Non-profit license                 $0            $0
  ---------------------------------- ------------- -------------

 

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-2-7 PERMITS; FEES.

   (A)   Circus and/or carnival businesses must have approval of the
director of public safety, and are required to provide certificate of
insurance naming as additionally insured the City of Apache Junction
officials, employees and citizens. A privilege license is mandatory for
such businesses. Applications for such business activities shall be
submitted to the city clerk no later than six (6) city business days
prior to the date the event begins.

   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above and other
requirements deemed necessary to protect the health, safety and general
welfare of the public, circuses and/or carnival companies operating
under the auspices of local non-profit organizations are exempt from the
permit fee prescribed herein.

   (C)   Persons already in possession of an appropriate license, other
than those solely licensed as peddlers, who wish to operate at temporary
locations as defined by A.J.C.C. Vol. I, § 8-1-1 shall pay a $10 permit
fee for each such location. Payment of such fee shall be valid for the
term of the license.

   (D)   Permit fees are in addition to licensing fees detailed in
A.J.C.C. Vol. I, § 8-2-5 and in Apache Junction Tax Code, Chapter 8A,
Article III, Licensing and Recordkeeping. The following permit fees
shall be applied:

 

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------
  Type of Permit                                                                                                   Initial Fee   Renewal Fee
  Distiller’s permit                                                                                               $225.00       $22.50
  Brewer’s permit                                                                                                  $225.00       $22.50
  Winer’s permit                                                                                                   $225.00       $22.50
  Hotel-motel permit to sell all spirituous liquors by individual portions and in the original containers          $450.00       $45.00
  Hotel-motel permit to sell all spirituous liquors                                                                $450.00       $45.00
  Hotel-motel permit to sell beer and wine by individual portions and in the original containers                   $150.00       $15.00
  Hotel-motel permit to see beer by individual portions and in the original containers                             $112.50       $11.25
  On-sale retailer’s permit to sell all spirituous liquors by individual portions and in the original containers   $300.00       $30.00
  On-sale retailer’s permit to sell beer and wine by individual portions and in the original containers            $150.00       $15.00
  On-sale retailer’s permit to sell beer by individual portions and in the original containers                     $112.50       $11.25
  Off-sale retailer’s permit to sell all spirituous liquors                                                        $112.50       $11.25
  Off-sale retailer’s permit to sell beer and wine                                                                 $112.50       $11.25
  Off-sale retailer’s permit to sell beer                                                                          $75.00        $7.50
  Club permit to sell all spirituous liquors                                                                       $75.00        $7.50
  Restaurant permit to sell all spirituous liquors                                                                 $450.00       $45.00
  Sexually oriented business                                                                                       $500.00       $500.00
  Each employee of a sexually oriented business                                                                    $100.00       $50.00
  Circus/carnival (per day)                                                                                        $300.00       $150.00
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -------------

 

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017; Am. Ord. 1564, passed 5-20-2025)

§ 8-2-8 DELINQUENCY PENALTY.

   (A)   When any license fee provided for herein shall become due and
unpaid, the same shall become delinquent and the City Clerk shall add
thereto a penalty of $25.

   (B)   No license shall be issued or renewed by the City Clerk until
the license or registration fees that are delinquent and the penalties
added thereto have been paid in full.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-2-9 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.

   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any business or
operating activity within the city without first having procured the
appropriate license from the city.

   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any business
activity using a suspended, cancelled or revoked license.

   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any business or
operating activity within the city without complying with any and all
regulations of such activity designated in this chapter.

   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed as provided in
this chapter to operate under any name or conduct business under any
designation not specified on such license.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 8-2-10 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION AND CANCELLATION OF LICENSE.

   (A)   An appropriate license shall be suspended for any person who
fails to renew the license and pay the required renewal fee in a timely
manner. The suspension period shall not exceed a 90 calendar day period.
If the license is renewed with the appropriate payment of renewal fee
and related penalty during the suspension period, the status of the
license shall be restored to current.

   (B)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
cancelled for any of the following reasons:

      (1)   License renewal has not been completed within 90 calendar
days of expiration;

      (2)   The licensee notifies the city clerk in writing with
appropriate signature that the business has been closed, sold or moved
out of the city; or

      (3)   The licensee, upon adequate identification, verbally
notifies the City Clerk that the business has been closed, sold or moved
out of the city.

   (C)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
revoked after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:

      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;

      (2)   Any violation of this chapter; or

      (3)   Conducting a business activity in violation of the Arizona
Revised Statutes.

   (D)   Revoked licenses may be reinstated only after the cause of such
revocation has been fully corrected.

   (E)   A person whose license has been suspended, cancelled or revoked
shall be issued a notice to cease business operations within the city.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-2-11 NOTICE OF HEARING AND APPEAL.

   (A)   To suspend or revoke a license, the City Clerk shall deliver or
mail by certified mail to the business address as shown by the license
application, a written notice that such license is suspended or revoked.
The reason for such suspension or revocation shall be set forth in the
notice. The notice shall also contain the licensee’s rights and
procedures to appeal such suspension or revocation. A suspended or
revoked license shall be surrendered to the City Clerk on demand.

   (B)   The City Clerk shall grant on demand to any licensee whose
license has been revoked or suspended a full hearing on the merits of
such suspension or revocation. Appeal of the City Clerk’s action to a
hearing officer appointed by the City Manager, pursuant to division (C)
below, shall not be had prior to the hearing. Demand for hearing shall
be made within 10 city business days of receipt of the City Clerk’s
notice of suspension or revocation, and failure to demand a hearing
within that time will constitute a full waiver. After considering
evidence presented at the hearing, the City Clerk shall make a decision
to uphold or repeal the license suspension or revocation; and shall
deliver or mail by certified mail to the business address as shown on
the license application the results of the decision.

   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the City Clerk’s decision pursuant to
division (B) above shall have the right of appeal to the designated
hearing officer. The appeal shall be filed with the city manager within
14 city business days after receipt of the City Clerk’s decision. The
appeal shall contain a written statement setting forth fully the grounds
for the appeal. The hearing officer shall set a time and place for a
hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the
applicant in the same manner as provided for notice of hearing on
revocation. The decision and order of the hearing officer shall be final
and conclusive, except any person aggrieved may pursue any appropriate
judicial proceedings.

   (D)   No person may reapply for any license after denial, revocation
or non-renewal of such license unless the cause for such denial,
revocation or non-renewal has been removed or corrected.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-2-12 EXEMPTION.

   Any person, partnership, association, company or corporation that has
procured and maintained a valid city transaction privilege tax license
for the calendar year 2017 shall not be required to obtain a city
business license until January 1, 2018.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

ARTICLE 8-3: PEDDLERS

Section

   8-3-1   Unlawful activities

   8-3-2   Exemptions

   8-3-3   Other regulatory requirements

§ 8-3-1 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any booth,
stand or counter; or to keep or maintain any wagon, cart, vehicle,
movable booth or stand for the purpose of barter or trade upon any city
right-of-way which includes but is not limited to sidewalks, streets and
alleys.

   (B)   It is unlawful for any appropriately licensed and registered
peddler to erect or maintain any booth, stand, counter, wagon, cart or
vehicle on any private property without first having provided a letter
of permission from the business or property owner, and complied with all
other applicable provisions of the city code and other regulations as
may be adopted by the city.

   (C)   It is unlawful for any peddler in the course of his or her
business to ring the doorbell or knock at any building whereon a sign
bearing the words "no peddlers, solicitors or canvassers" or any similar
verbiage is exposed to public view.

   (D)   It is unlawful for any person operating as a peddler to ring
the doorbell or knock at any building within the city before the hour of
9:00 a.m. or afer the hour of 6:00 p.m.

   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a peddler
without first having registered with the City Clerk, without having a
valid identification card in possession while conducting the business
activity, or when failing to exhibit the card upon request by any
resident or employee of the city.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007; Am. Ord. 1367, passed 10-5-2010)
Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 8-3-2 EXEMPTIONS.

   Newspaper deliverers are exempt from the provisions of this article
for the sale of newspaper subscriptions.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-3-3 OTHER REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS.

   Any peddler conducting business along parade routes or at parades
shall provide the city with proof of insurance coverage for any vehicle
that is used in conjunction with such peddling activities, and shall
provide the city with an acceptable certificate of insurance naming the
city, its officers and employees as additional insureds. The coverage
shall be a minimum of $1,000,000 per event per occurrence, $2,000,000
aggregate.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

ARTICLE 8-4: AUCTIONS, PAWNSHOPS AND SECOND HAND DEALERS

Section

   8-4-1   Definitions

   8-4-2   Suspension of license; appeal

   8-4-3   Reports required

§ 8-4-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   ABANDONED PROPERTY. Property to which the owner has relinquished all
right, title, claim and possession, with intention of not reclaiming it
or resuming its ownership, possession or enjoyment.

   AUCTIONEER. Any person who shall operate an auction house or who, as
a principal or agent, shall offer any article for sale by public outcry,
and where the items offered at auction are sold immediately to the
highest bidder.

   AUCTION HOUSE. Any establishment in which the business of auctioning
articles is carried on for sale by public outcry, and where the items
offered for auction are sold immediately to the highest bidder.

   DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of purchasing or selling
secondhand or cast-off material of any kind, such as any vehicle parts
or accessories, machinery, iron, copper, brass, lead, zinc, tin, steel,
aluminum, metal pipe and other metals, metal alloys, metallic cables,
wire, ropes, cordage, bottles, bagging, rags, rubber, paper and other
like materials which are purchased from persons other than the original
manufacturer or authorized distributor selling same for money, credit or
exchange. For the purposes of this article, the terms SCRAP DEALER and
JUNK DEALER shall have the same meaning as dealer. These provisions
shall not apply to any person engaged solely in recycling metal cans,
paper, cardboard and glass.

   PAWN TRANSACTION. Either the act between the pawnbroker and a person
pledging tangible personal property or extending credits on the security
of pledged goods, or the act of purchasing tangible personal property
with an expressed or implied agreement or understanding that it may be
redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed or variable price
within a fixed or variable period of time.

   PAWNBROKER. Any person engaged in business activity of pawn
brokering, or the business of loaning money for himself or herself or
for any other person, receiving as security for the repayment thereof,
pawn transactions or pledges of personal property, or the business of
purchasing personal property and reselling or agreeing to resell the
article to vendors, their personal representatives or their assignees,
at prices agreed upon at or before the time of such purchase, whether
the business be principal or sole business so carried on, managed or
conducted, or merely incidental to, in connection with or a branch or
department of some other business or businesses.

   PAWNSHOP. Any room, store or place in which the business is engaged
in, carried on or conducted.

   SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person engaged in conducting, managing or
carrying on the business of buying, selling, trading or exchanging, or
otherwise dealing in secondhand goods, wares, merchandise or articles,
or old coins and money, jewelry, precious metals, semi-precious stones
and similar items, whether the business be the principal or sole
business so carried on, managed or conducted or be merely incidental to,
in connection with, or managed, or conducted or be merely incidental to,
in connection with, or a branch or a department of some other business.
The term ANTIQUE DEALER shall have the same meaning as "secondhand
dealer". The term SECONDHAND DEALER shall not be construed to include
trade-ins, dealers, or auctioneer in articles of property, the transfer
of title to which is required by the laws of the state to be evidenced
by written instrument and recorded in the office of the department of
the state or county government.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-4-2 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.

   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the
license of any auction house, dealer, pawnbroker or secondhand dealer
shall be revoked for 1 year upon a showing that the operator or an
employee of the establishment has been convicted of violating any of the
provisions of A.R.S. Title 44, Chapter 11, Article 3 in the conduct of
business of the establishment.

   (B)   Operators and employees of an auction house, dealer, pawnbroker
or secondhand dealer shall be subject to all other license revocation,
suspension and appeal procedures as prescribed by A.R.S. Title 44,
Chapter 11, Article 3.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-4-3 REPORTS REQUIRED.

   (A)   Every person engaged in the business of auction house, dealer,
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall make out and deliver to the Chief
of Police a true, complete and legible report of all goods and articles
received on deposit or consignment, in pawn, pledge, trade or exchange
or by purchase. The report shall be made upon forms furnished by the
city and shall be delivered within 24 hours after the receipt of the
property concerned. Each sheet shall contain the following:

      (1)   A description of the property; including brand name, model
and serial number, if any;

      (2)   The amount loaned or paid for the property, or amount
allowed in trade;

      (3)   The number of the pawn ticket, if any is given;

      (4)   The date and time when property was received;

      (5)   The signature of the person from whom the property was
received;

      (6)   The name (printed), address and age of the person. The
reporting party shall require each person to show proof of his or her
name by exhibiting state or federal identification;

      (7)   A description of the person, consisting of height, weight,
race, date of birth, driver's license number, complexion and hair color;
and

      (8)   The vehicle model and license number used in making
delivery.

   (B)   No article shall be sold or exchanged by any auction house,
dealer, pawnbroker or secondhand dealer until it shall have been in the
custody thereof for 10 calendar days after making out and delivering to
the Chief of Police the report required under division (A) above.
Provided that in the case of an article consigned to an auction house,
such article shall not be sold or exchanged until after it shall have
been in the custody thereof for 3 days after delivering to the Chief of
Police the report required under division (A) above. This division shall
not apply to redemption of pawned or pledged articles.

   (C)   Every person engaged in the business of dealer or secondhand
dealer shall record the description of every article sold for an amount
of $25 or more. He or she shall also record the name and address of the
purchaser of such articles. This record shall be held by the dealer or
secondhand dealer for at least 30 days after the sale.

   (D)   Upon notification by representatives of the Police Department
that goods and articles received on deposit or consignment, in pawn,
pledge, trade, exchange or purchase, are the fruits of a crime, no
auction house, dealer, pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall dispose of
the property. Interest upon the goods and articles pawned or pledged
shall cease to accrue on the date of the notification.

   (E)   Every person engaged in the business of auctioneer, dealer,
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall prominently display a copy of
these provisions in a conspicuous place on the premises of the business.

   (F)   Every person engaged in the business of auctioneer, dealer,
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer, who, in the conduct of his or her
business, comes into possession of abandoned property, shall turn over
the property to the Police Department for which a receipt shall be
issued. If ownership of the property is not established within 90 days
after delivery to the Police Department, the property shall be returned
to the person from whom the Police Department obtained possession. This
division shall not apply to unredeemed pawned or pledged articles.

   (G)   The business premises of any auction house, dealer, pawnbroker
or secondhand dealer, along with their transaction records and stock of
goods and articles, shall be open at reasonable hours to reasonable
inspection by representatives of the police department or the City
Clerk's office.

   (H)   No person engaged in the business of auctioneer, dealer,
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall knowingly permit a person whose
license is under suspension to be employed in any capacity of such
establishment.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

ARTICLE 8-5: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS

Section

   8-5-1   Definitions

   8-5-2   Application

   8-5-3   Inspection of premises

   8-5-4   Requirements for establishments

   8-5-5   Permitted locations

   8-5-6   Unlawful activities; inspection of premises; hours of service

   8-5-7   Change of location or employment

   8-5-8   Suspension and revocation of license

§ 8-5-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   MASSAGE THERAPY. Any activity as defined in A.R.S. § 32-4201.5 and
any amendments thereto that is undertaken to increase wellness,
relaxation, stress reduction, pain relief and postural improvement, or
to provide general or specific therapeutic benefit.

   PRINCIPAL. Any decision maker in the management or operation of a
massage establishment.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-5-2 APPLICATION.

   (A)   Any person desiring to obtain a business license to operate a
massage establishment shall make application for same to the City Clerk.

   (B)   In addition to the information contained on the standard
license application form furnished by the city, each principal in a
business applying to operate a massage establishment shall submit the
following additional information:

      (1)   The full legal name and current residence address of each
principal;

      (2)   Any other names by which each principal has been known;

      (3)   Written proof that the each principal is over the age of 18
years;

      (4)   Each principal's height, weight and hair and eye color;

      (5)   One portrait photograph of the principal, at least 2 inches
by 2 inches in size, taken within the previous 6 months;

      (6)   The business license history of each principal, whether that
license was issued by this city, another city or any state; and whether
the license was ever revoked or suspended, the reason therefore, and the
business activity or occupation subsequent to such suspension or
revocation;

      (7)   All felony convictions of each principal and the grounds of
the conviction; and

      (8)   A copy of the principal's license issued pursuant to A.R.S.
Title 32, Chapter 42.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-5-3 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.

   (A)   Any applicant for a license pursuant to this article shall
personally appear at the clerk’s office and shall present the
application and additional required information.

   (B)   No license to operate a massage establishment shall be issued
or renewed if any principal has been convicted within the last five
years of any felony or other offense involving moral turpitude or if the
application as deliberately falsified.

   (C)   In addition, the building safety department shall inspect any
premises proposed as the site of a massage establishment and shall make
separate recommendations to the clerk concerning compliance with the
provisions of § 8-5-5.

(Ord. 1367, passed 10-5-2010)

§ 8-5-4 REQUIREMENTS FOR ESTABLISHMENTS.

   No massage business license for a massage establishment shall be
issued or renewed unless inspection by the Building Safety Division of
Development Services Department indicates the site of the proposed
establishment complies with each and all of the following minimum
requirements:

   (A)   Minimum lighting shall be provided in accordance with the
Uniform Building Code or equivalent is the current code that the
Building Official relies on, and, in addition, at least 1 artificial
light of not less than 60 watts shall be provided in each room or
enclosure where services are performed on patrons and shall be in use
whenever those services are being performed;

   (B)   Minimum ventilation shall be provided in accordance with the
Uniform Building Code or other current code which the Building Official
relies on;

   (C)   Adequate equipment shall be provided for disinfecting and
sterilizing instruments used in administering or practicing any massage
therapy techniques;

   (D)   Hot and cold running water shall be provided at all times;

   (E)   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for storage of clean
linens;

   (F)   Adequate bathing, dressing and toilet facilities shall be
provided for patrons. A minimum of 1 dressing area, 1 toilet and 1 wash
basin shall be provided for each massage establishment; provided,
however, that if male and female patrons are to be served simultaneously
at the establishment, a separate massage room and separate dressing
areas shall be provided for male and female patrons;

   (G)   All walls, coiling, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam
rooms and all other physical facilities for the establishment must be in
good repair and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. Wet and
dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms and cabinets, shower compartments
and toilet rooms shall be thoroughly cleaned each day the business is in
operation. Bathtubs shall be thoroughly cleaned after each use;

   (H)   Clean and sanitary towels shall be provided for each patron.
The headrest of each table shall be provided with a clean and sanitary
towel, paper towel or sheet for each patron;

   (I)   A minimum of 1 separate wash basin shall be provided in each
massage establishment, which basin shall provide soap or detergent and
hot and cold running water at all times, and shall be located within or
as close as practical to the area devoted to the performing of massage
services. In addition, there shall be provided at each wash basin
sanitary towels placed in permanently installed dispensers; and

   (J)   A massage establishment shall at all times comply with all
applicable city ordinances, county, state and federal regulations.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-5-5 PERMITTED LOCATIONS.

   (A)   A properly licensed massage therapist or health care
professional shall only be permitted to provide massage therapy at the
following business locations:

      (1)   Full service beauty salon, spa, health club, fitness center
or massage establishment;

      (2)   Medical establishment of a health care professional; and

      (3)   In the home or business location of a client by any massage
therapist or healthcare professional having an appropriate license.

   (B)   A massage therapist or healthcare professional or any students
in conjunction with a recognized school of massage or educational
institution as allowable under A.R.S. Title 32, may perform massages
during community and civic events as long as they meet the requirements
set forth in A.J.C.C., Vol. 1, Article 8-8 and 8-9 of this code.

(Ord. 1421, passed 11-3-2015)

§ 8-5-6 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES; INSPECTION OF PREMISES; HOURS OF SERVICE.

   (A)   It shall be unlawful:

      (1)   For any person to conduct or operate a massage establishment
on the same premises whereon is also conducted the business of a
cocktail lounge, photography studio, motel studio, art studio, telephone
answering service, motion picture theater or bookstore; and

      (2)   For any person to practice or administer any massage or
touching techniques, whether for a fee or gratuity:

         (a)   In a manner or under circumstances intended to arouse,
appeal to or gratify sexual desires;

         (b)   To any other person whose genital organs are not covered
by opaque material;

         (c)   While dressed in such a way as the genital organs,
buttocks or female breast or breasts are not covered by opaque material;
or

         (d)   In any way touch the genital organs of the individual
receiving treatment.

   (B)   For any massage establishment to hire as an employee or
independent contractor to conduct massage therapy without a valid
massage therapist license issued pursuant to A.R.S. Title 32, Chapter
42.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 8-5-7 CHANGE OF LOCATION OR EMPLOYMENT.

   (A)   A change in location of a massage establishment may be approved
by the City Clerk provided that all ordinances and regulations of the
city are complied with. The City Clerk shall order inspections of the
proposed premises by the Building Safety Division as required by Vol. I,
§§ and 8-5-5.

   (B)   Notification shall be made to the City Clerk by a massage
establishment whenever a massage therapist begins or leaves the employ
of the establishment.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-5-8 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.

   In addition to the provisions contained in Vol. I, § 8-2-9(C), the
license of a massage establishment may be revoked or denied renewal upon
any of the following grounds:

   (A)   That any principal or employee of the business has been
convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction within the last 10 years
of a felony or of any offense involving prostitution, sexual behavior,
indecent exposure or pornography;

   (B)   That the licensee is has been convicted of untrue, fraudulent,
misleading or deceptive advertising within the last 10 years;

   (C)   That the licensee has been found liable of willful negligence
in the business of massage therapy or operating a massage establishment
within the past 10 years; or

   (D)   That the licensee is engaged in the business of massage therapy
under a false or assumed name, or is impersonating another establishment
of a like or different name.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007; Am. Ord. 1367, passed 10-5-2010)

ARTICLE 8-6: SWAP MEET OPERATIONS

Section

   8-6-1   Definitions

   8-6-2   License required

   8-6-3   Unlawful practices of swap meet proprietor

   8-6-4   Unlawful practices of swap meet vendors

   8-6-5   Regulations

§ 8-6-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   SWAP MEET. A place of commercial activity, popularly known as a swap
meet, flea market or park-and-swap, open to the general public for the
purchase of merchandise on the premises, which place is available to the
general public who wish to sell or barter merchandise on the premises,
whether such sellers or vendors are in the business of vending or are
making casual sales or some combination thereof and which place is
normally composed of stalls, stands or spaces allotted to vendors at
least 1 of whom does not occupy the same allotted space or spaces on an
uninterrupted continuous daily basis.

   SWAP MEET PROPRIETOR. Any person who rents, sells, donates or
otherwise makes available to swap meet vendors any space within premises
owned or controlled by the proprietor for the purpose of a swap meet
sale.

   SWAP MEET VENDOR. Any person located upon the premises of a swap meet
for the purpose of conducting business activity at a swap meet.

   VENDOR REGISTRATION LOG. A well-bound volume kept by the proprietor
to identify vendors.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-6-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.

   (A)   Swap meet proprietor is a person deemed to be engaged in a
taxable business activity. Thus, that person is required to obtain a
privilege license with the city.

   (B)   Swap meet vendors shall obtain the appropriate license with the
city before engaging in business or operating activities at a swap meet.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-6-3 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES OF SWAP MEET PROPRIETOR.

   In addition to the provisions in Vol. I, § 8-2-8, it is unlawful for
a swap meet proprietor to fail to comply with the following
requirements:

   (A)   To permit any person to engage in the sale of merchandise upon
parking or other areas owned or controlled by the swap meet proprietor
whenever such areas or sites are not specified on the proprietor's
license;

   (B)   To fail to control the entrance to and exit of all swap meet
vendors and merchandise from the premises by the physical presence and
personal supervision on the premises of the swap meet proprietor or his
designated agents during the hours of operation of the swap meet;

   (C)   To fail to keep an accurate vendor registration log for a
period of 4 years;

   (D)   To fail to make available the vendor registration log for
inspection by the City Clerk or the department of public safety; and

   (E)   To fail to inquire of any vendor entering the premises of the
swap meet proprietor for the purpose of doing business, the status of
the vendor's compliance with current city licensing regulations.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-6-4 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES OF SWAP MEET VENDORS.

   In addition to the provisions in Vol. I, § 8-2-8, it is unlawful for
a swap meet vendor to fail to comply with the following requirements:

   (A)   To fail to post, at the swap meet vendor's assigned location,
in a conspicuous place so as to be clearly seen by the public, the
appropriate license that has been issued by the city; and

   (B)   To engage in sales at locations other than the vendor's sales
location assigned that day by the proprietor.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-6-5 REGULATIONS.

   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the vendor registration log
shall contain for each swap meet vendor a separate and distinct daily
entry of the name, address, vehicle license numbers; tax, business or
operating license number, drivers license number and other descriptive
information in a form approved by the City of Apache Junction, of any
swap meet vendor entering the premises of the swap meet proprietor for
the purpose of a swap meet.

   (B)   The swap meet proprietor shall make no distinction between swap
meet vendors conducting business activities and those conducting casual
sales. All vendors at a swap meet shall be considered to be conducting
business or operating activities.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

ARTICLE 8-7: YARD SALES

Section

   8-7-1   Definition

   8-7-2   Regulations

   8-7-3   Conditions under which business license is required

§ 8-7-1 DEFINITION.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.

   YARD SALE. The retail sale of merchandise by the resident of a
specific residential address, and which complies with the definition of
"casual activity" as defined in Vol. I, § 8-1-1.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-7-2 REGULATIONS.

   (A)   Yard sales shall only be conducted by the owner or resident of
the specific residential address.

   (B)   Yard sales shall be limited to no more than 4 times per
calendar year per address at a maximum of 4 days each time.

   (C)   At no time shall any yard sale be permitted to operate if, in
the judgment of the Public Safety Director, a traffic or parking hazard
has been created.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-7-3 CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH BUSINESS LICENSE IS REQUIRED.

   (A)   Any individual operating a yard sale in excess of the number of
times permitted under Vol. I, § 8-7-2(B) shall be considered to be
operating a business and shall be required to obtain an appropriate
license.

   (B)   Any yard sale licensed as a business under the provisions of
this article shall be wholly conducted within a screened or fenced area
constructed of opaque materials. All such screened or fenced areas shall
be constructed in accordance with applicable city zoning regulations.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

ARTICLE 8-8: REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMUNITY AND CIVIC EVENTS

Section

   8-8-1   Purpose and intent

   8-8-2   Definitions

   8-8-3   Civic event sponsor requirements

   8-8-4   Civic event vendor requirements

   8-8-5   Community event sponsor requirements

   8-8-6   Community event vendor requirements

   8-8-7   Tax license required

   8-8-8   Business license and tax license required

§ 8-8-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.

   This article is intended to regulate community and civic events for
the benefit of its citizens and visitors which enable the city to:

   (A)   Protect life, health, property and general welfare of the city;

   (B)   Minimize expenditures of public funds for community and civic
events;

   (C)   Minimize business interruptions during events while promoting
business growth and economic development;

   (D)   Implement a high profile, proactive approach to local economic
development through public/private partnerships;

   (E)   Provide a range of community and civic events open to everyone
to improve the quality of life in the city;

   (F)   Facilitate the redevelopment and revitalization of the downtown
and older commercial areas;

   (G)   Assist the city in implementing its overall economic
development goals;

   (H)   Provide a consistent set of standards for community and civic
events;

   (I)   Compete on an equal basis with other communities for tourism
and other economic development projects.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-8-2 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   CIVIC EVENT. An activity or gathering not exceeding 4 consecutive
days in any calendar year which is conducted, organized and sponsored
solely by the city or in conjunction with a non-profit organization, has
been approved as such by the council during the annual budget process
and which is open to all participants on an equal basis.

   COMMUNITY EVENT. An activity or gathering not exceeding 4 consecutive
days in any calendar year which is conducted, organized and sponsored by
non-profit organizations or for-profit organizations and is open to all
participants on an equal basis.

   EVENT. An activity or gathering with the purpose of promoting or
benefitting the city and its residents and/or the sponsoring
organizations. An application will be required for any activity or
gathering which meets any of the following criteria:

      (1)   Use of or impact/encroachment on any city street, sidewalk,
alley or other right-of-way area (which includes any indirect impact
that will affect the flow of typical vehicular or pedestrian traffic)
that requires more than one city department approval, or will require
the approval of more than one city department for inspections,
assistance or permits.

      (2)   Is likely to draw a crowd to a venue not properly suited and
has the potential to require special accommodations, regulations,
traffic control devices or public works or safety personnel;

      (3)   Presence or participation of one or more for-profit or
nonprofit vendors that intend to make a sale, advertise for sale,
solicit sales, offer for sale, or provides a service or offer/advertise
to provide a service. This provision does not apply to vendors already
in possession of a valid city license issued under this code or city tax
code;

      (4)   Activities such as weddings, funerals, private yard sales,
car shows or charity car washes shall not be considered an event.

      (5)   A programmed event of a city department shall not be
considered an event, however if the event includes vendors that are not
already properly licensed with the city, then a fee of $15 per vendor
shall be collected for each event. The city department sponsoring the
programmed event shall be responsible for collecting this fee from each
participating vendor. These fees shall be paid in total to the city no
later than 8 working days following the last day of the event.

   FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATION. Any entity or corporation which has been
established, maintained, or conducted for the purpose of making a
profit.

   NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION. Any religious, social, fraternal or civic
organization which has been designated as a 501C organization by the
Internal Revenue Service and which has a valid operating license as
provided for in Vol. I, Chapter 8 of the city code or the city tax code.
Should questions as to form of business arise, interpretations of this
section shall be based upon form indicia contained in the following:
Arizona Revised Statutes; Internal Revenue Code Rules and Regulations
prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-8-3 CIVIC EVENT SPONSOR REQUIREMENTS.

   (A)   A non-profit sponsor of any civic event which includes vendors
shall pay a fee of $50 per day. This fee shall be paid no later than 10
city business days in advance of the first day of the event. A penalty
of $5 per day shall be assessed for each city business day the initial
payment is late beginning with the city business day immediately
following the initial deadline. The civic event fee shall not apply to
those events which do not include vendors or city events.

   (B)   A non-profit sponsor of any civic event shall provide the city
clerk with the name, address and telephone number of the event
coordinator or contact person at least 30 city business days in advance
of the event.

   (C)   The sponsor of any civic event shall obtain a completed vendor
application, on a form to be provided by the city, from each
participating vendor and obtain a copy of the vendor’s driver’s license
for any vendor(s) not already properly licensed with the city. The
sponsor shall provide the city with these completed forms in addition to
a complete list containing name, address and telephone number of each
participating vendor no later than 8 city business days following the
last day of the event.

   (D)   Any food truck vendor, as defined in this chapter, that is
present at a civic event shall follow the regulatory process in Article
8-10 of this chapter.

   (E)   Obtain the city transaction privilege tax or use tax number
from the vendor in advance of an event and verify with the city that it
is a valid number. No vendor will be permitted to participate in the
event without a valid city tax license.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-8-4 CIVIC EVENT VENDOR REQUIREMENTS.

   (A)   All civic event vendors who engage or attempt to engage in a
sale at a civic event or who advertise or solicit services or products
shall complete a civic event vendor application in order to participate
in the event. The completed form shall be submitted to the event
sponsor.

   (B)   Non-profit organizations which participate as vendors at civic
events shall not be required to complete an event vendor application if
their participation is limited to the distribution of literature or
information relative to their organization.

   (C)   Massage therapists or healthcare professionals or any students
in conjunction with a recognized school of massage or educational
institution as allowable under A.R.S. Title 32 who wish to participate
as a vendor at a civic event shall be permitted to do so as long as such
service is provided by a person holding a valid city business license
and who is authorized under A.R.S. Title 32 to perform massages.

   (D)   Any food truck vendor, as defined in this chapter, that is
present at a civic event shall follow the regulatory process in Article
8-10 of this chapter.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-8-5 COMMUNITY EVENT SPONSOR REQUIREMENTS.

   (A)   The sponsor of any community event which includes vendors shall
remit to the city a fee of $15 per vendor for those vendors not already
properly licensed for each event. The sponsor shall be responsible for
collecting this fee from each participating vendor. These fees shall be
paid in total to the city no later than 8 city business days following
the last day of the event. A penalty of $5 per city business day shall
be assessed for each city business day that the total fee remains
unpaid.

   (B)   The sponsor of any community event shall provide the city clerk
department with the name, address and telephone number of the event
coordinator or contact person at least 30 city business days in advance
of the event.

   (C)   The sponsor of any community event shall obtain a completed
vendor application, on a form to be provided by the city, from each
participating vendor and obtain a copy of the vendor’s driver’s license
for any vendor(s) not already properly licensed with the city. The
sponsor shall provide the city with these completed forms in addition to
a complete list containing name, address and telephone number of each
participating vendor no later than 8 city business days following the
last day of the event.

   (D)   Any food truck vendor, as defined in this chapter, that is
present at a special event shall follow the regulatory process in
Article 8-10 of this chapter.

   (E)   Obtain the city transaction privilege tax or use tax number
from the vendor in advance of an event and verify with the city that it
is a valid number. No vendor will be permitted to participate in the
event without a valid city tax license.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-8-6 COMMUNITY EVENT VENDOR REQUIREMENTS.

   (A)   All community event vendors who engage or attempt to engage in
a retail sale or who solicit or advertise in any form at a community
event shall complete a community event vendor application in order to
participate in the event. The completed form shall be submitted to the
event sponsor.

   (B)   Non-profit organizations who participate as vendors at
community events shall not be required to complete a community event
vendor application if their participation is limited to the distribution
of literature or information relative to their organization.

   (C)   Vendors who have an appropriate license shall not be required
to pay an additional vendor fee provided they are engaging in an
activity covered by the license.

   (D)   Massage therapists or healthcare professionals or any students
in conjunction with a recognized school of massage or educational
institution as allowable under A.R.S. Title 32 who wish to participate
as a vendor at a community event shall be permitted to do so as long as
such service is provided by a person holding a valid city business
license and who is authorized under A.R.S. Title 32 to perform massages.

   (E)   Any food truck vendor, as defined in this chapter, that is
present at a special event shall follow the regulatory process in
Article 8-10 of this chapter.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-8-7 TAX LICENSE REQUIRED.

   Any vendor participating at a community or civic event who is engaged
in a taxable activity shall be required to obtain a city privilege tax
or use tax license as set forth in the Apache Junction Tax Code, Chapter
8A, Article III, Licensing and Recordkeeping. This license shall be
obtained in advance of the event.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-8-8 BUSINESS LICENSE AND TAX LICENSE REQUIRED.

   No city business license shall be required for a community event or
civic event vendor if such vendor is engaged in hobby or craft sales in
which the seller is the creator or non-paid representative of the
creator and for which the gross sales of each hobbyist and craftsman
shall not exceed $3,000 in any twelve (12) month period of time. Such
vendors are still required to complete the vendor application and obtain
a city privilege tax or use tax license prior to participating in the
event.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

ARTICLE 8-9: SALES WITHIN MOBILE HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS,
MOBILE HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SUBDIVISIONS
AND ALL OTHER RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS

Section

   8-9-1   Purpose and intent

   8-9-2   Definitions

   8-9-3   Violation and penalty

   8-9-4   Market days sponsor requirements

   8-9-5   Market days vendor requirements

§ 8-9-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.

   This article is intended to regulate sales and events within mobile
home and recreational vehicle parks, mobile home and recreational
vehicle subdivisions and all other residential subdivisions for the
benefit of residents and visitors and which enable the city to:

   (A)   Protect life, health, property and general welfare of the city;

   (B)   Enable residential areas, mobile home and recreational vehicle
communities to host a range of events for community members whether open
to the general public or not so as to improve the quality of life in the
city;

   (C)   Provide a consistent set of standards for sales and events
within Mobile Home Parks, Recreational Vehicle Parks, Mobile Home
Subdivisions, Recreational Vehicle Subdivisions and all other
residential subdivisions.

(Ord. 1421, passed 11-3-2015)

§ 8-9-2 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   MARKET DAYS, COUNTRY STORE, BAZAAR DAYS AND THE LIKE. An event at a
temporary location not exceeding 1 day per week conducted within a
mobile home park, travel trailer park, recreation vehicle park or mobile
home, recreational vehicle or residential subdivision for the purpose of
providing goods and services, ancillary retail sales and activities
intended for residents and non-residents.

   SPONSOR. Any non-profit organization, for-profit corporation, home
owners association or any other entity which is legally formed and
obligates itself to organize, operate and manage a market days event.

(Ord. 1421, passed 11-3-2015)

§ 8-9-3 VIOLATION AND PENALTY.

   It is unlawful for any sponsor of a market days event to permit any
vendor to set up at the event without the vendor having first met all
city licensing requirements. Violations of this article are punishable
under A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 1-1-11.

(Ord. 1421, passed 11-3-2015)

§ 8-9-4 MARKET DAYS SPONSOR REQUIREMENTS.

   (A)   The sponsor of any market day events shall apply for and obtain
a transaction privilege tax license from the city clerk prior to
conducting or allowing ancillary retail sales (e.g., market days,
craft/art sales, fundraisers and temporary food vendors).

   (B)   The sponsor shall comply with required sales tax administration
and collection processes and shall be responsible for the collection and
remittance of city sales tax on market days sales.

   (C)   Any food truck vendor, as defined in this chapter, that is
present at a market days event shall follow the regulatory process in
Article 8-10 of this chapter,

(Ord. 1421, passed 11-3-2015)

§ 8-9-5 MARKET DAYS VENDOR REQUIREMENTS.

   (A)   Shall apply to vendors participating in market days if there is
not a market days sponsor as set forth in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 8-9-4.

      (1)   All vendors who engage or attempt to engage in a sale at a
market days event or who advertise or solicit services or products shall
complete the city license application and pay the required fee in
accordance with this chapter and the city tax code in order to
participate in the event.

      (2)   Non-profit organizations who participate as vendors at
market days shall not be required to complete a city application if
their participation is limited to the distribution of literature or
information relative to their organization and they have the required
city license.

      (3)   Any vendor who conducts business activity at a market days
event shall obtain the appropriate license and pay the applicable
license fee as set forth in the city tax code.

      (4)   Any vendor who conducts business activity at a market days
event shall always be in possession of an appropriate license, and such
license, or a copy thereof, shall be produced upon the request of any
city official or the market days sponsor or coordinator.

   (B)   Any food truck vendor, as defined in this chapter, that is
present at a market days event shall follow the regulatory process in
Article 8-10 of this chapter.

(Ord. 1421, passed 11-3-2015)

ARTICLE 8-10: MOBILE AND TEMPORARY FOOD AND BEVERAGE VENDORS

Section

   8-10-1   Definitions

   8-10-2   Permit

   8-10-3   Mobile food and vending operating conditions

   8-10-4   Permit revocation and appeals

   8-10-5   Penalties

§ 8-10-1 DEFINITIONS.

   COUNTY HEALTH PERMIT. A Pinal or Maricopa County (according to the
location of where business is being conducted in the city) special event
health permit for on-site inspection of temporary food booths, food
trucks and mobile food vendors on the day of the event or an annual food
service permit as outlined in Pinal County Environmental Health Services
Substantive Policy Statements; Maricopa County Environmental Services
Department Substantive Policy Statements; the Pinal County Environmental
Health Code; or the Maricopa County Environmental Health Code.

   FOOD VENDING CART. Any wheeled device moved by human power.

   MOBILE FOOD VENDING VEHICLE. A licensed concession trailer or
motorized vehicle suitable for use on a public highway which is equipped
and primarily used for the sale of food and beverage of any kind
including prepared, pre-packaged or unprepared, unpackaged food and
nonfood sundries

specifically related to the mobile food vendor’s business.

   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. Any person or entity, as defined in this chapter,
who:

      (1)   Owns, controls, manages, operates and/or leases a mobile
food vending vehicle or food vending cart;

      (2)   Contracts or employs any person to drive, operate, prepare
foods, and/or vend from a mobile food vending vehicle or food vending
cart.

   OPERATOR. Any person who prepares food and/or sells food, beverages
or sundries from a mobile food vending vehicle or food vending cart or
any individual that operates such a vehicle or cart.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-10-2 PERMIT.

   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any mobile food vendor to conduct
business without first obtaining and maintaining a mobile food vendor
permit and all other required licenses, including a privilege or use tax
license, the applicable county environmental health services permit as
determined by Pinal or Maricopa County (according to the location of
where business is being conducted in the city), current food handler’s
card and identification cards as may be required by this chapter. If a
mobile food vendor has more than one food vending vehicle or food
vending cart, multiple permits shall be required. There shall be no
application fee for a mobile food vendor permit.

   (B)   Application. In addition to the requirements set forth in this
chapter and the Apache Junction Tax Code, applicants for a mobile food
vendor permit shall include the following information with the permit
application:

      (1)   A description of the goods to be sold;

      (2)   If the applicant is an agent of the business for which the
permit will be issued, the name and address of the agent, if different
from the business address, together with credentials establishing the
exact relationships with the mobile food vendor;

      (3)   A description, license plate number and photograph of the
vehicle or cart;

      (4)   All location(s) from which the applicant intends to conduct
business and a permanent address to which notifications may be sent;

      (5)   A valid driver’s license;

      (6)   A mobile food vendor shall provide proof of vehicle
liability insurance which shall be maintained during the term of the
permit and shall have at least the minimum limits required by law;

      (7)   A mobile food vendor who conducts business on public
property or city right-of-way shall provide: a) a certificate of
insurance naming the “City of Apache Junction” as an additionally
insured party; and b) a signed indemnification and duty to defend and
hold harmless commitment.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 8-10-3 MOBILE FOOD AND VENDING OPERATING CONDITIONS.

   Mobile and temporary food and beverage vendors who have obtained a
permit shall be subject to the following limitations and conditions:

   (A)   Mobile vending shall only be permitted to operate on developed,
commercially zoned property and shall not be authorized to operate on
vacant lots and shall not impede access to adjacent businesses;

   (B)   There shall be an open and operating permanent business on the
site in order to accommodate the sanitary facilities access requirement
of the Building Code (i.e, restrooms, trash, recycling, food waste and
grease disposal). The temporary food and beverage vendor must also be
able to use these facilities;

   (C)   The hours of operation for the vendors shall be limited to the
hours that the on-site, permanent business is open;

   (D)   The vendor shall secure the permission of the sponsoring
business owner;

   (E)   Vendors/operators of food vending vehicles shall arrange for
trash receptacles and will dispose of all trash during operations and
shall keep the area surrounding the mobile food vending vehicles free of
debris, litter and waste;

   (F)   The temporary food and beverage vendors shall not store the
vehicle or cart when the permanent on-site business is not open unless
the operator has the sponsoring business owner’s permission;

   (G)   Mobile food vending vehicles or carts shall not be stored on
the sponsoring business’ property, when not in use, in lieu of placing
it in a storage lot or similar facility regardless of the sponsoring
business owner’s permission;

   (H)   Mobile food and beverage vending shall be limited to 96
consecutive hours maximum at each temporary location;

   (I)   Signage attached to a mobile food vending vehicle shall not
require a sign permit, but must conform to the signage regulations in
the City of Apache Junction Zoning Ordinance. One A-frame sign or menu
board per vehicle or cart is also permitted;

   (J)   A mobile food vendor or operator shall carry at all times proof
of liability insurance, mobile food vendor permit, county health
department permit, food handing card and proof of property owner
approval to be on a given property;

   (K)   A mobile food vendor or operator may operate on city-owned or
leased property, public right-of-way or city park as part of a civic
event;

   (L)   Mobile food vending shall not be permitted on any city street
or public right-of-way unless it is part of a civic event;

   (M)   Mobile food vendors shall be permitted to operate on private
property at any location within the city when catering a private
function and shall not stage the vehicle on public property or
right-of-way.

   (N)   If the mobile food vendor is charged a fee for the food truck
space, the sponsoring business owner shall comply with city tax code
requirements.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-10-4 PERMIT REVOCATION AND APPEALS.

   (A)   A mobile food vendor permit shall be revoked by the city
clerk’s office for any of the following reasons:

      (1)   The permittee notifies the city in writing with appropriate
signature that the business has been closed, sold or is no longer
operating in the city; or

      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a permit;

      (3)   Any violation of this chapter or the Apache Junction Tax
Code; or

      (4)   Conducting a business activity in violation of the Arizona
Revised Statutes.

   (B)   Revoked permits may be reinstated only after the cause of such
revocation has been fully corrected;

   (C)   A person whose permit has been revoked shall be issued a notice
to cease mobile food vending operations within the city;

   (D)   Any person aggrieved by the city’s decision to revoke a permit
pursuant to subsection (A) above shall have the right of appeal to a
hearing officer designated by the city manager. The appeal shall be
filed with the city manager within 14 business days after receipt of the
city’s decision. The appeal shall contain a written statement setting
forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The hearing officer shall set a
time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing
shall be given to the applicant. The decision and order of the hearing
officer shall be final and conclusive, except any person aggrieved may
pursue any appropriate judicial proceedings;

   (E)   No person may reapply for any permit after revocation unless
the cause for such revocation has been corrected.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

§ 8-10-5 PENALTIES.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be
deemed guilty of a class one misdemeanor and, shall upon conviction, be
punished pursuant to the provisions of the Apache Junction City Code,
Vol. I, Chapter 1: General, Article 1-1: General, § 1-1-11 Penalty.

(Ord. 1450, passed 9-19-2017)

ARTICLE 8-11: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS OPERATORS, MANAGERS; ADULT
SERVICE PROVIDERS AND EMPLOYEES

Section

   8-11-1   Legislative purpose

   8-11-2   Definitions

   8-11-3   Permit required: operators; managers; adult services;
providers and employees

   8-11-4   Exemptions

   8-11-5   Applications

   8-11-6   Investigations

   8-11-7   Granting, denial, revocation and suspension; appeal

   8-11-8   Expiration and renewal

   8-11-9   Non-transferability

   8-11-10   Operation requirements

   8-11-11   Other licenses

   8-11-12   Penalty

   8-11-13   Applicability

   8-11-14   Severability

§ 8-11-1 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE.

   (A)   It is the purpose of this article to establish permitting
procedures and regulations for sexually oriented businesses and their
employees to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of
the citizens of the City of Apache Junction, and to avoid and mitigate
the detrimental secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses
through content neutral regulations.

   (B)   It is not the purpose of this article to impose a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including
sexually oriented materials, or to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny
access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market.

   (C)   This article is not intended to interfere with or suppress
legitimate expression or any speech activities protected by the First
Amendment to the United States Constitution nor is it intended to permit
any use or activity which is otherwise prohibited or made punishable by
law.

   (D)   In passage of this article, the Mayor and Council considered
testimony and case law, studies and other documents which fully outline
that adult oriented businesses may and do generate secondary effects
which have proven to be detrimental to the public health, safety and
welfare of the city as noted above. The City Clerk has all the
documentation on file in his or her office with the original minutes of
the case.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-11-2 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   ADULT ARCADE or PEEP SHOW. Any place to which the public is permitted
or invited where coin-operated or slug-operated, or for any form of
consideration, electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled
still or motion picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc
players, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images
to a person in a booth or a viewing room where the images so displayed
depict or describe SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS or SPECIFIED SEXUAL
ACTIVITIES.

   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT VIDEO STORE or ADULT NOVELTY STORE. A
commercial establishment which as its principal business purpose offers
for sale or rent 50% or more of its inventory for any form of
consideration any 1 or more of the following:

      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, computer generated images, motion pictures, video
cassettes or video reproductions, slides or other visual representations
that depict or describe "specified anatomical areas" or "specified
sexual activities;" or

      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for
use in connection with "specified sexual activities," excluding condoms
and other birth control and disease-prevention products.

   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or other commercial
establishment permitted to serve alcoholic beverages pursuant to A.R.S.
§ 42-09(B), which regularly features, exhibits or displays as one of its
principal business purposes:

      (1)   Individuals who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;

      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities;" or

      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which depict or describe "specified
anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities."

   ADULT HOTEL/MOTEL. A hotel or motel or similar commercial
establishment that:

      (1)   Offers public accommodations for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
computer generated images, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
other photographic reproductions that depict or describe "specified
anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities" as 1 of its principal
business purposes; and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way
which advertises the availability of these adult-types of photographic
reproductions;

      (2)   Offers a single sleeping room for rent less than 10 hours in
a 24-hour period; or

      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent
the room for a period of time that is less than 10 hours in a 24-hour
period.

   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial establishment
that features either:

      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity; or

      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specific sexual activities.

   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A means a commercial establishment,
where for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions are regularly
shown as 1 of its principal business purposes that depict or describe
"specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities."

   ADULT SERVICES. Dancing, service of food or beverage, modeling,
posing, wrestling, singing, reading, talking, sitting or listening, or
other performances or activities conducted for any consideration in a
sexually oriented business by an individual who is nude or is in a state
of nudity during all or part of the time the person is providing the
service.

   ADULT SERVICES PROVIDER. Any individual who provides any adult
services, whether an employee or independent contractor.

   ADULT THEATER. A commercial establishment which regularly features,
exhibits or displays, as 1 of its principal business purposes,
individuals who appear nude, in a state of nudity or semi-nudity, live
or by film, or plate negative, film or plate positive, film or tape
designed to be projected on a screen for exhibition, or films, glass
slides or transparencies, either in negative or positive form, designed
for exhibition by projection on a screen, or any type of viewing booth
or equipment, that expose or depict "specified anatomical areas" or
"specified sexual activities."

   BOOTH. A partitioned area in which coin or token operated video
machines, projectors or other electronically or mechanically controlled
devices are used in the regular course of business to produce still or
moving picture images that expose or depict "specified anatomical areas"
or "specified sexual activities."

   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Director of Department of Public Safety, or his
or her designated agent, whose duties are more fully described in Vol.
I, Article 3-6 of the Apache Junction city code.

   CITY MANAGER. The department director of the office of the City
Manager, or his or her designated agent, whose duties are more fully
described in Vol. I, Article 3-1.

   DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DIRECTOR. The department director of the Apache
Junction development services department, or his or her designated
agent, whose duties are more fully described in Vol. I, Article 3-9.

   EMPLOYEE. Any individual who performs any service on the premises of
a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract
basis, whether or not the person is denominated as an employee,
independent contractor, agent or otherwise and whether or not the
individual is paid a salary, wage or other compensation by the operator.
Employee does not include a person exclusively on the premises for
repair or maintenance of the premises or for delivery of goods to the
premises.

   ESCORT. An individual who for tips or any other consideration agrees
or offers to act as a companion, guide or date for another individual or
who agrees or offers to privately model or otherwise be clothed in
lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another individual.

   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business that furnishes, offers to furnish
or advertises to furnish escorts as 1 of his or her or its principal
business purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.

   ESTABLISHMENT. The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented
business as a new business; or the conversion of an existing business,
whether or not a sexually oriented business, to any sexually oriented
business; or the addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
sexually oriented business; or the relocation of any sexually oriented
business.

   FIGURE MODEL. Any individual who for pecuniary compensation,
consideration, hire or reward, poses in a modeling studio to be
observed, sketched, painted, drawn, sculpted, photographed or otherwise
depicted.

   INDIVIDUAL. A human being.

   LICENSE. Any license or temporary license issued or required by this
chapter as a condition to operate a sexually oriented business, or
issued to a manager, adult services provider or employee of a sexually
oriented business.

   LICENSEE or APPLICANT. An individual or person in whose name a permit
to operate a sexually oriented business will be or has been issued, or a
manager, adult services provider or employee authorized pursuant to this
article.

   MANAGER'S STATION. A permanently designated area marked accordingly
within a sexually oriented business where a sexually oriented business
manager is located in the normal course of operations.

   MODELING STUDIO. A business which provides, for pecuniary
compensation, monetary or other consideration, hire or reward, figure
models who, for the purpose of sexual stimulation of patrons, display
"specified anatomical areas" to be observed, sketched, photographed,
painted, sculpted or otherwise depicted by persons paying such
consideration.

   NUDE, NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft/cleavage or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering; the showing of the
female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the
nipple; or the showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.

   OPERATE A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS; OPERATOR. Supervising,
managing, inspecting, directing, organizing, controlling or being
responsible for or in charge of the conduct of activities of a sexually
oriented business.

   PATRON or CUSTOMER. An individual invited or permitted to enter and
remain upon the premises of a sexually oriented business, whether or not
for consideration.

   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. A state of dress in which clothing
covers no more than the genitals, pubic region, buttocks, areola of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting
straps or devices.

   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business that as 1 of its primary purposes
offers for any form of consideration physical contact in the form of
wrestling or tumbling between persons of the opposite sex; or activities
between male and female persons and/or persons of the same sex when 1 or
more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.

   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
cabaret, adult live entertainment establishment, adult hotel/motel,
adult motion picture theater, adult novelty store, adult theater, adult
video store, escort agency, modeling studio, sexual encounter center and
any combination thereof.

   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS MANAGER or MANAGER. An individual on the
premises of a sexually oriented business who is authorized to exercise
overall operational control of the business.

   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.

      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals,
pubic region, buttocks and female breast below a point immediately above
the top of the areola;

      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; and

      (3)   Any device, costume or covering that simulates any of the
body parts included in divisions (1) and (2) of this definition as
referenced above.

   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation or sodomy on the premises of an adult oriented business.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-11-3 PERMIT REQUIRED: OPERATORS; MANAGERS; ADULT SERVICES; PROVIDERS
AND EMPLOYEES.

   It is unlawful:

   (A)   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without
having secured a valid sexually oriented business operator permit issued
pursuant to this article;

   (B)   For any person to serve as manager for a sexually oriented
business without having secured a valid sexually oriented business
manager permit issued pursuant to this article; and

   (C)   For any person to work as an employee in a sexually oriented
business without having secured a valid sexually oriented business
employee permit issued pursuant to this article.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 8-11-12

§ 8-11-4 EXEMPTIONS.

   The provisions of this article do not apply to any person who is
engaging in, conducting or carrying on a lawful business as an owner or
operator of any of the following businesses or activities:

   (A)   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, physical
therapists, nurses or any other health care provider, or barbers or
beauticians duly licensed or certified to practice their respective
profession in the State of Arizona;

   (B)   Trainers of any amateur, semi-professional or professional
athlete or athletic team;

   (C)   Any activity conducted or sponsored by any school district or
governmental entity pursuant to any license issued by the State of
Arizona or United States Government;

   (D)   Portions of performances in theater, concert hall, music hall
or auditorium stage wherein the displays are an integral part of a
dramatic or comedic presentation;

   (E)   Private or public schools providing a course of instruction in
photography or photography studios which do not provide for
consideration, photography equipment, models and a studio; or

   (F)   Modeling agencies, schools or services, except those which
provide live modeling services for consideration, in which a patron may
obtain an exclusive modeling exhibition in which he or she is the only
observer.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-11-5 APPLICATIONS.

   (A)   Any person desiring to obtain a sexually oriented business
operator, manager, adult services provider or employee permit shall make
application to the City Clerk. The application shall be on a form
prescribed by the Chief of Police and made available by the City Clerk.

   (B)   The application shall be signed under oath by each individual
listed as an applicant and notarized, and shall be accompanied by the
fee required under Vol. I, § 8-11-9.

   (C)   The application shall include 2 original duplicates of a
current photograph and the fingerprints of each applicant. Fingerprints
shall be taken at the Apache Junction Police Department, or by any other
law enforcement agency if accompanied by a notarized verification by
that agency, all at the sole expense of the applicant.

   (D)   The application shall be deemed filed with the city when the
City Clerk has received the required fee in full, a completed
application with all information required under division (F) below, and
the photograph and fingerprints of each applicant. In the case of a
sexually oriented business operator permit application, the applicant
shall file 4 copies with the City Clerk, including all addendum or
attachments thereto, with 1 copy being kept on file with the City Clerk,
1 copy being forwarded from the City Clerk to the Chief of Police, 1
copy being forwarded to the Zoning Administrator, and 1 copy being
forwarded to the Building Official. In the case of a sexually oriented
business manager, adult services provider or employee permit, the
applicant need only file 2 copies with the City Clerk, who shall retain
one for official city records, and shall forward one to the Chief of
Police for a background investigation.

   (E)   If a person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, that individual must be listed as the applicant and also
as the designated permit holder. If a person desiring to operate a
sexually oriented business is a legal entity other than an individual,
each officer, director or general partner of the entity, and any other
individual who will participate directly or indirectly in decisions
relating to management of the business, must be listed in the
application as an applicant, and must provide their photograph and
fingerprints as provided in division (C) above, sign the application
under oath witnessed by a notary public, and must provide all of the
information required under division (F) of this section.

   (F)   In addition to other information as may be requested on the
face of the application form, the application shall include the
following information and items:

      (1)   Name, premises address, business mailing address if
different than premises address, phone number of proposed sexually
oriented business and emergency phone number;

      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation, the state and date of
incorporation, and evidence that the corporation is in good standing
under the laws of the State of Arizona, the name of the registered
corporate counsel and agent, and address of the registered office for
service of process;

      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, names of all partners and
whether the partnership is general or limited, as well as a copy of the
partnership agreement;

      (4)   Each applicant's full true name and any other names, aliases
or stage names used in the preceding 5 years;

      (5)   Each applicant's current residential mailing address and
telephone number;

      (6)   A copy of each applicant's driver's license with picture or
other picture identification issued by a governmental agency within the
last 2 years;

      (7)   The issuing jurisdiction and the effective date of any
license or permit relating to the operation of a sexually oriented
business or relating to the provision of any adult services which is
held or has been held at any time by any applicant or by the designated
permit holder, whether any such license or permit has been revoked or
suspended, and the reasons thereof;

      (8)   Any criminal conviction of any applicant or of the
designated permit holder in the preceding 3 years for a sexual offense
described in A.R.S. §§ 13-1401 through 13-1424, a racketeering offense
as described in A.R.S. § 13-2301(D)(4), a prostitution offense as
defined in A.R.S. §§ 13-3201 through 13-3214, a drug offense described
in A.R.S. §§ 13-3401 through 13-3424, or a sexual exploitation of
children offense described in A.R.S. §§ 13-3551 through 13-3559;

      (9)   The names of the sexually oriented business managers who
will have actual supervisory authority over the operation of the
business;

      (10)   An accurate to scale floor plan or diagram of the business
premises clearly showing the configuration of the interior and exterior
areas, including a statement of total floor space occupied by the
business. The location of where the license will be conspicuously
posted, as well as the location of the manager's station and overhead
lighting fixtures, and all areas in which patrons will not be permitted
to enter. The diagram need not be professionally drawn, but should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street and shall be drawn to
a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various interior dimensions;

      (11)   A certificate and straight line drawing prepared within 30
calendar days prior to application depicting the building and the
portion thereof to be occupied by the sexually oriented business, and
the property line of any other sexually oriented business located within
1,000 of the property line of any other sexually oriented business, as
well as the property lines of any church, school, park, private
residences and other businesses and uses delineated in Vol. II, §§
1-17-1-12(A), 1-17-2-12(A), and Chapter 1; and

      (12)   The City Clerk may waive the foregoing diagram and drawing
requirements for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
and drawing which was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was
prepared.

   (G)   Divisions (F)(10) and (F)(11) above are not applicable to
applicants desiring a sexually oriented business manager, adult services
provider or employee permit.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-11-6 INVESTIGATIONS.

   (A)   Upon receipt, the City Clerk shall forward a copy of the
application to the Chief of Police, as well as to the Building Official
and Zoning Administrator.

   (B)   For sexually oriented business manager, adult services provider
and employee permit applications, the City Clerk need only send the
copies to the Chief of Police for his or her investigation, except for
permit applications relating to an adult bookstore, adult video or
novelty store.

   (C)   The Chief of Police shall review the application for accuracy
and shall conduct a criminal background investigation of the applicant.

   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the location
of the business is in compliance with Vol. II, §§ 1-17-1-12(A),
1-17-2-12, and Chapter 1, or development standards as adopted by the
city.

   (E)   The Building Official shall inspect the proposed premises and
shall determine whether the proposed premises are in compliance with all
building codes as adopted by the city.

   (F)   The Chief of Police, Zoning Administrator and Building Official
shall each make separate recommendations to the City Clerk for the
approval or denial of the permit.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-11-7 GRANTING, DENIAL, REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION; APPEAL.

   (A)   Upon receipt of a complete application for a sexually oriented
business operator, manager, adult services provider or employee permit,
payment of the required fees and completion of photograph and
fingerprinting requirements under this article, the City Clerk shall
issue to the applicant a temporary permit. The issuance of a temporary
permit does not waive any right of city to revoke, deny or suspend for
any defect, omission or misrepresentation in the application.

   (B)   Within 30 calendar days after the application for a sexually
oriented business operator, manager, adult services provider or employee
permit is filed with the city, the City Clerk shall, based on the
recommendations of the Chief of Police, Zoning Administrator and
Building Official, notify such applicant by prepaid first class
certified mail, return receipt requested, whether the permit will be
granted, denied or renewed. Failure by the City Clerk to issue such
notice upon expiration of this time period shall be deemed as issuance
of the permit.

   (C)   The City Clerk shall grant the permit or renewal application
thereof if all requirements for the application have been completed,
unless:

      (1)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;

      (2)   The application contains incomplete information to justify
the issuance of a permit;

      (3)   The required application has not been paid;

      (4)   The applicant has made false, misleading or fraudulent
statements of material fact in the application;

      (5)   The building, structure, equipment or location proposed by
the applicant for the sexually oriented business does not comply with
the requirements pursuant to this article, and other health, fire,
building, safety, development standards and zoning provisions enacted by
the city; or

      (6)   The applicant is delinquent in payment to the city of taxes,
fees, fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon the applicant
in relation to sexually oriented businesses

   (D)   In the case of the granting of a sexually oriented business
operator permit, the permit shall state on its face the name of the
licensee, the expiration date and the address of the sexually oriented
business. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near
the entrance.

   (E)   The City Clerk shall suspend a permit for a period of 10
working days if a licensee is not in compliance with this article.

   (F)   The City Clerk shall revoke a permit pursuant to this article
if the licensee:

      (1)   Has failed to come within compliance of any provision in
this article within 10 working days from the last day of the suspension
as provided in division (E) above;

      (2)   Is convicted of 3 or more violations of this article in any
12-month period;

      (3)   Is convicted or pleads guilty or no contest to offenses
stated in Vol. I, § 8-11-5(F)(8); or

      (4)   Is determined to have filed inaccurate information in the
application.

   (G)   If the City Clerk determines that grounds exist for denial,
suspension or revocation of a permit, the City Clerk shall notify the
applicant by prepaid first class certified mail, return receipt
requested, including the grounds for such action. The grounds shall make
reference to the applicable sections and divisions of this article which
have not been complied with or have been violated. The applicant may
respond to the City Clerk within 10 working days in writing setting
forth a statement as to why the permit should not be denied, suspended
or revoked. The statement may also request a hearing. If a response is
not received by the City Clerk in the time stated, the denial,
suspension or revocation shall be final and the City Clerk shall send
written notice to the applicant within 5 working days after expiration
of the period for submitting a response by prepaid first class certified
mail, return receipt requested.

   (H)   Within 5 working days after receipt of response, the City Clerk
shall either:

      (1)   Withdraw the denial, suspension or revocation determination,
and will so notify the applicant as in the manner proscribed above; or

      (2)   Schedule a hearing, a hearing officer designated by the City
Manager and so notify the applicant in the manner noted above, including
the date, time and place of the hearing. If the City Clerk fails to send
a timely notification, the permit shall be deemed to continue as valid
until the annual renewal date. The hearing will be conducted informally.
All parties shall have a right to offer testimonial, documentary and
tangible evidence bearing on the issues. Each party may also be
represented by an Arizona licensed attorney of their own choosing at
their own expense, and shall have the right to confront and
cross-examine witnesses. Although the Arizona rules of evidence will not
apply at this hearing, any relevant evidence as determined by the
hearing officer may be admitted that is the sort of evidence persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs. The hearing shall
be scheduled not less than 15 nor more than 20 working days after
receipt by the City Clerk of the request for a hearing. The applicant
shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that
the denial, suspension or revocation was arbitrary or capricious and was
an abuse of discretion.

   (I)   The hearing officer shall render a written decision within 5
working days after completion of the hearing and shall notify the
applicant of the determination by prepaid first class certified mail,
return receipt requested. The decision shall be final at the end of 5
working days after it is mailed and shall constitute final
administrative review. The applicant may continue to function under the
permit pending receipt of the final decision of the hearing officer.

   (J)   The hearing officer's decision may be appealed to the Pinal
Superior Court by special action or other appropriate procedure within
35 calendar days after mailing of the written decision to the applicant.
If a licensee pursues a judicial appeal from a final administrative
action, the licensee may continue to function under the permit pending
completion of the judicial review.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-11-8 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.

   (A)   Each permit shall expire 1 year from the date of issuance and
may be renewed only by making application as provided in Vol. I, §
8-11-5.

   (B)   The renewal application must be received 45 calendar days
before the expiration date of the originally issued license.

   (C)   The City Clerk may deny an application for renewal for the
reasons set forth in Vol. I, § 8-11-7.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-11-9 NON-TRANSFERABILITY.

   (A)   Permits issued pursuant to this article are not transferable.

   (B)   With regard to sexually oriented business operators, any
transfer of ownership or control of the business causes any issued
permit to be void. The new owner shall be responsible for obtaining a
permit. Transfer of ownership and control includes the following:

      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;

      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling
interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means;
and

      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal
device which transfers the ownership of control of the business, except
for transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the
person possessing the ownership interest or control.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-11-10 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.

   (A)   With the exception of escort services and modeling studios, the
following operational regulations apply:

      (1)   The business shall maintain a daily log of all persons
providing adult services on the premises, including their city permit
numbers. The log shall cover the preceding 12-month period and shall be
available for inspection upon request by the Chief of Police;

      (2)   A person below the age of 18 years may not observe nor
provide any adult services;

      (3)   An individual may not provide adult services within the
premises of the business except upon a stage elevated at least 18 inches
above the floor level. All parts of the stage, or a clearly designated
area thereof with which the adult services are provided, shall be a
distance of at least 3 feet from all parts of a clearly designated area
in which patrons may be present. The stage or designated area thereof
shall be separated from the area in which patrons may be located by a
barrier or railing, the top of which is at least 3 feet above floor
level. An adult services provider or patron may not extend any part of
their body over or beyond the barrier or railing;

      (4)   An adult services provider, in the course of providing any
adult services, may not perform a specified sexual activity;

      (5)   Adult services may not be provided in any location which is
not visible by direct line of sight at all times from a manager's
station located in a portion of the premises which is not accessible to
patrons;

      (6)   A manager shall be on the premises of a sexually oriented
business at all times during which any adult services is provided on the
premises;

      (7)   An adult services provider or employee may not at any time
touch the breast, buttocks or genitals of a patron, nor may a patron
touch the breast, buttocks or genitals of an adult services provider or
employee;

      (8)   No adult services provider or employee, either before,
during or after performances, shall have physical contact with any
patron and no patron shall have physical contact with any adult services
provider or employee before, during and after performances by such adult
services provider or employee. This division shall only apply to
physical contact on the premises of the sexually oriented business;

      (9)   No patron shall pay or give any gratuity to any adult
services provider, and no adult services provider shall solicit any pay
or gratuity from any patron;

      (10)   A sign setting forth the regulations in division (A)(2),
(3), (7), (8) and (9) above shall be conspicuously posted visible from
the entrance of the business in such a manner as to be clearly legible
to patrons upon entry;

      (11)   No sexually oriented business shall operate in a manner
that permits the observation of any material or activities depicting,
describing or relating to "specified anatomical areas" or "specified
sexual activities" from any public way or from any location outside the
building or area of the establishment. This provision shall apply to any
display, decoration, sign, show window or other opening. No exterior
door or window on the premises shall at any time be propped or left open
while the business is in operation, and any exterior shall be covered
with opaque covering at all times;

      (12)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner or with the use of mirrors that there is an unobstructed view
from the manager's station of every area of the premises to which any
patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms.
Restrooms may not contain video equipment and;

      (13)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than 1 person at
anytime. There shall be no openings of any kind between viewing rooms or
booths. The manager shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or
holes exist. All floor coverings in viewing booths must be nonporous,
easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.

   (B)   With respect to an adult cabaret, the requirements of this
section shall apply to the extent that they are not in conflict with
specific statutory or valid regulatory requirements applicable to
persons permitted to dispense alcoholic beverages.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 8-11-12

§ 8-11-11 OTHER LICENSES.

   (A)   A permit required by this article is in addition to any other
license or permit required by the city, Pinal County or the State of
Arizona.

   (B)   Persons engaging in activities described in this article shall
comply with all other ordinances and laws, including but not limited to
the Apache Junction Zoning Ordinance, the landscaping and screening
regulations of the city, the Sign Code, as well as privilege and
business license regulations set forth in Vol. I, Article 8-2 above.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-11-12 PENALTY.

   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter,
shall be guilty of a Class 1 Misdemeanor, and shall be subject to the
penalty and multiple charging provisions set forth in Vol. I, § 1-1-11.

   (B)   A licensee which is an enterprise shall be subject to the fine
provided in A.R.S. § 13-803.

   (C)   In addition to criminal penalties described herein, a sexually
oriented business which operates without having obtained a license or is
operating under an expired license shall constitute a public nuisance
which may be abated by a suit for injunctive relief.

   (D)   It is a defense to prosecution under Vol. I, § 8-11-3 that each
item of descriptive printed, film or video material offered for sale or
rental, taken as a whole, contains serious literary, artistic,
political, religious or scientific value.

(Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-1-2007)

§ 8-11-13 APPLICABILITY.

   This article shall apply to all persons engaged in the activities
described herein, whether or not such activities were commenced before
the effective date of this article. Persons so engaged as of the
effective date of this article, shall be in full compliance with this
article, including receipt of any required license and permit, within
180 calendar days after the effective date of this article.

(Ord. 1367, passed 10-5-2010)

§ 8-11-14 SEVERABILITY.

   Each section of this article should be deemed severable and the
invalidity of any provision of this article shall not affect the
validity or enforceability of any other provision.

(Ord. 1367, passed 10-5-2010)

ARTICLE 8-12: NON-PRESCRIPTION PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT SALES

Section

   8-12-1   Purpose

   8-12-2   Definitions

   8-12-3   Access and seizure of unsecured products; hearing and
procedure

   8-12-4   Keeping of sales logs and submittal to law enforcement upon
request

   8-12-5   Prohibited sales to persons under 18 years of age

   8-12-6   Right to refuse to sell

   8-12-7   Penalty

§ 8-12-1 PURPOSE.

   The purpose of this article is to decrease the availability of
ephedrine derived from nonprescription drug products and other cold and
allergy medications commonly used as a precursor in the production of
methamphetamine. The Arizona State Legislature has yet to regulate
ephedrine products which are combined with other active ingredients.
These provisions are to supplement, not to substitute A.R.S. §
13-3401.01 et seq.

(Am. Ord. 1253, passed 1-3-2006)

§ 8-12-2 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   LICENSED PHARMACY TECHNICIAN. A person licensed by the state to
assist a pharmacist.

   PHARMACIST. A person licensed by the state in the art, practice, or
profession of preparing, preserving, compounding, and dispensing medical
drugs.

   PROPER IDENTIFICATION. A recognized government-issued photo
identification of a purchaser including, but not limited to, a driver's
license, identification card or passport.

   PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A drug product commonly used in
decongestants and can be illegally processed to make methamphetamine;
ephedrine, nonpseudoephedrine, and phenylpropanolamine shall be included
in this definition; in addition, a product containing ephedrine or
pseudoephedrine that contains any detectable quantity of ephedrine or
pseudoephedrine or its salts, optical isomers or salts of optical
isomers; and product packaging that lists ephedrine or pseudoephedrine
as an active ingredient shall constitute prima facie evidence that it is
a product containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine.

   RETAIL COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business that offers
any pseudoephedrine product for sale or retail.

(Am. Ord. 1253, passed 1-3-2006)

§ 8-12-3 ACCESS AND SEIZURE OF UNSECURED PRODUCTS; HEARING AND
PROCEDURE.

   (A)   Nonprescription pseudoephedrine products, shall only be
available for retail sale at retail establishments with the assistance
of a state licensed pharmacist, or permitted pharmacy technician. The
pharmacist, or pharmacy technician, or other employee of a retail
establishment shall keep all pseudoephedrine products, as defined,
behind a store counter or otherwise in a manner that is inaccessible to
customers without the assistance of a pharmacist or pharmacy technician
licensed in this state per A.R.S. Title 32, Chapter 18.

   (B)   Any pseudoephedrine product found to be displayed in a retail
establishment in violation of this article constitutes a public nuisance
and is subject to seizure and disposal by the city.

   (C)   Products subject to seizure under this article may be seized by
a peace officer pursuant to a search or seizure warrant or upon probable
cause to believe that the products are subject to seizure. Before
removing any products from the establishment, the peace officer shall
give the operator of the establishment a reasonable opportunity to
secure the products pursuant to this article, unless the operator has
already been afforded an opportunity within the preceding consecutive
12-month period to secure such products.

   (D)   At the time of seizing any products under this section, the
peace officer shall deliver a notice of intent to dispose of the seized
products. This notice shall include the date and location of the
seizure, an inventory of the items seized, a description of how a
post-seizure hearing may be requested, the time limit for requesting
that hearing, and a warning that failure to request the hearing in a
timely manner will result in the disposal and destruction of the seized
property. The notice required under this division shall be served on the
managing agent, licensed pharmacist or pharmacy technician of the retail
establishment present at the time of the seizure, or if that person
cannot be identified at the time of the seizure, on any employee of the
establishment.

   (E)   A person receiving a notice of intent to dispose under this
section may request a post-seizure hearing with the Apache Junction
Municipal Court to determine the validity of the seizure within 15 days
of receiving the notice, excluding weekends and holidays. The court
shall conduct the hearing within 10 days of the court's receipt of the
request, excluding weekends and holidays. Failure to request the hearing
in a timely manner, or failure to attend a scheduled hearing,
constitutes a waiver of the right to challenge the validity of the
seizure. At the hearing, the city shall have the burden of establishing
by a preponderance of the evidence that the property was subject to
seizure pursuant to this article. At the hearing, the court may admit
any reliable and relevant evidence. If the court finds that the products
were not subject to seizure, it shall order the immediate return of all
seized items. If the court finds that the products were properly seized
pursuant to this section, the court shall order that the products be
forfeited to the city, and shall direct the city to destroy and dispose
of the products.

   (F)   The requirements of this section are in addition to any
requirements under state and federal law.

(Am. Ord. 1253, passed 1-3-2006)

§ 8-12-4 KEEPING OF SALES LOGS AND SUBMITTAL TO LAW ENFORCEMENT UPON
REQUEST.

   (A)   The licensed pharmacist or pharmacy technician that sells
pseudoephedrine products, shall record the name of the purchaser, their
address, date of birth, the date of the transaction, and type of
identification used in a manual or electronic log after verifying the
purchaser's identification as defined herein.

   (B)   The log shall be available to law enforcement upon request for
review and shall be submitted to the Police Chief when requested by the
Police Department. The submission can be made by manual or electronic
means or by any other means the Police Chief approves. The log is
confidential and not subject to disclosure to any non-pharmacy, except
law enforcement or by court order.

(Am. Ord. 1253, passed 1-3-2006)

§ 8-12-5 PROHIBITED SALES TO PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.

   Sales of nonprescription pseudoephedrine products to persons under 18
years of age are prohibited. Age of each purchaser of pseudoephedrine
products shall be verified by the licensed pharmacist or pharmacy
technician by inspecting proper identification as defined herein.

(Am. Ord. 1253, passed 1-3-2006)

§ 8-12-6 RIGHT TO REFUSE TO SELL.

   Any licensed pharmacist or pharmacy technician at a retail
establishment may refuse to sell any pseudoephedrine product, to any
person, if the licensed pharmacist or pharmacy technician has reason to
believe that the product will be used in the unlawful manufacture of
methamphetamine. Facts that give rise to the belief that the product
will be used unlawfully, include, but are not limited to a suspicious
transaction as defined in A.R.S. § 13-3401; the attempted purchase of
pseudoephedrine products in excess of the amounts permitted by A.R.S. §
13-3401.01, (no more than 3 packages, not to exceed 9 grams of
pseudoephedrine, without a valid prescription, unless licensed or
permitted by state law); the attempt to purchase pseudoephedrine
products in a series of transactions in an effort to circumvent the
limitations on sales; or the attempt to purchase pseudoephedrine
products in conjunction with other methamphetamine precursor products,
such as red phosphorous or iodine. Any person who refuses to make a
retail sale in accordance with this section is not liable to its
customer or any other person for any loss or damage caused in whole or
in part by the refusal to sell.

(Am. Ord. 1253, passed 1-3-2006)

§ 8-12-7 PENALTY.

   (A)   A violation of any provisions in this article is a class 2
misdemeanor.

   (B)   Enterprise liability is not applicable to this article.

(Am. Ord. 1253, passed 1-3-2006)

CHAPTER 9: HEALTH AND SANITATION

      Article

         9-1.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS

         9-2.   REFUSE, GARBAGE, DEBRIS, JUNK, TRASH AND LITTER REMOVAL

         9-3.   CONSTRUCTION SITES

         9-4.   PRIVATE RECYCLING CONTAINERS

         9-5.   COLLECTION OF RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE

         9-6.   COLLECTION OF COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE

ARTICLE 9-1: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS

Section

   9-1-1   Findings, application and intent

   9-1-2   Definitions

   9-1-3   Public nuisances prohibited

   9-1-4   Enforcement and abatement

§ 9-1-1 FINDINGS, APPLICATION AND INTENT.

   (A)   The purpose of this article is to protect the public health,
safety, morals, and welfare by establishing minimum standards governing
the maintenance, appearance, condition and occupancy of residential and
nonresidential premises; to establish minimum standards governing
structures and other physical components and conditions essential to
make structures fit for human habitation, occupancy and use; to identify
certain responsibilities and duties of owners, occupants and operators;
to authorize and establish enforcement and abatement procedures; to set
penalties for violations of this code; and to provide for the repair,
demolition or vacation of premises unfit for human habitation, occupancy
or use.

   (B)   This article, adopted under the authority of A.R.S. §
9-240(B)(21), § 9-276(16) and (19) and § 9-499, shall apply to all
buildings, structures and lands within the city without regard to the
use, date of construction, improvement or alteration.

   (C)   Conflict of ordinances.

      (1)   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be
in conflict with a provision of any city zoning, building, fire, safety
or health ordinance or code existing on the effective date of this
chapter, the provision of the city zoning, building, fire, safety or
health ordinance or code shall prevail.

      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to repeal,
abrogate, annul, or in any way impair or interfere with existing
provisions of other laws or ordinances, except those specifically
repealed by this chapter.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006; Am. Ord. 1467, passed 12-4-2018)

§ 9-1-2 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A vehicle, motor home, trailer or semi-trailer
that is of a type subject to registration in the state, whether lost,
stolen, abandoned or otherwise unclaimed, and that has been abandoned on
a public highway, public property or private property. Evidence that a
vehicle was left unattended for a period of 48 hours within the
right-of-way of any highway, road, street or other public thoroughfare,
or for a period of 72 hours on public property or private property, is
prima facie evidence of abandonment.

   ANIMAL WASTE. Household pet waste and waste from stables, kennels,
pet pens, chicken coops, veterinary establishments and others of a
similar nature.

   APPROVED. Acceptable to the Code Official.

   BLIGHT or BLIGHTED. Unsightly conditions of a building, structure,
accessory building, fence, landscaping or property characterized by
neglect, lack of maintenance, damage or any other similar conditions of
disrepair or deterioration, unsanitary or unsafe conditions, or the
existence of conditions that endanger life or property by fire and other
causes. Examples include, but are not limited to: the accumulation of
debris, wood, scrap iron or other metal, boxes, paper, vehicle parts,
tires, inoperable equipment or vehicles, discarded appliances; or any
items that may harbor insect or vermin infestation or create a fire
hazard; landscaping that is overgrown, dead or damaged; weeds; fences
that are broken, rotted, damaged or leaning; or buildings or structures
exhibiting general disrepair or dilapidation, including but not limited
to, deteriorated shingles, peeling paint, broken doors or windows,
boarded-over windows, or any other evidence of neglect or lack of
maintenance; and the exterior visible use or display of tarps, plastic
sheeting, or other similar materials as weather protection for roofs or
structures, or as, flexible or inflexible screening, fencing, or wall
covering upon any parcels within the city regardless of the condition of
other properties in the neighborhood.

   BOARDINGHOUSE. A single-family, detached or attached dwelling unit in
which any of the rooms are rented or leased to persons on a transient or
temporary basis, but which does not include group homes, dormitories,
convalescent homes, nursing homes, substance abuse detoxification
centers or substance abuse treatment centers.

   BUILDING.  Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a
roof and used or built for the shelter and enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind. This shall include tents,
awnings or vehicles situated on private property and used for purposes
of a building.

   BUILDING CODE.  The construction codes that were in force at time of
building construction, including plumbing and mechanical codes, electric
codes, residential construction codes, energyconservation codes and
existing building construction codes, and includes any property
maintenance codes, neighborhood preservation codes, anti-blight codes or
other similar codes, however denominated. With respect to manufactured
homes, as defined in A.R.S. § 41-4001, BUILDING CODE means the federal
construction codes applicable to manufactured homes constructed after
June 15, 1976, and the Arizona codes applicable to mobile homes
constructed before that date.

   BUILDING, ENCLOSED. A building with a perimeter composed of rigid
walls and a roof.

   CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration
and enforcement of this code, or any duly authorized representative.

   CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for occupancy.

   DEBRIS, TRASH, LITTER. Substance or material of little or no apparent
value, aesthetic or economic, including but not limited to: broken
glass, broken concrete, broken plaster or gypsum board, scrap lumber,
siding or roofing material, ceiling tile or floor covering material,
broken asphalt materials, clay, tile or plastic pipe or any similar
discarded scrap building or construction materials, scrap metal of all
types, appliances or parts thereof, parts of motor vehicles, tires,
glass, wood or lumber, indoor furniture and mattresses, bedding, boxes,
crates, packing cases, cabinets, household fixtures, plumbing fixtures,
including but not limited to, toilets, or any other plumbing material,
abandoned, broken or neglected equipment, or the scattered remains of
items, shopping carts on residential zoned property, any solid wastes
consisting of both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper,
wrappings, weeds, cigarettes, cardboard, metal or plastic cans, yard
clippings, leaves, tree trimmings, or any material in which insects may
breed or multiply or which provides harborage for rodents, reptiles or
vermin, or which would contribute to the spread of fire or prevent its
rapid control.

   DETERIORATION or DISREPAIR. A decline of the general condition or
appearance of a building, structure, or parts thereof, characterized by
holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, cracking, peeling, rusting, or any other
evidence of physical decay, neglect, or lack of maintenance.

   DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Property that has been modified purposefully from
its original state, resulting in a condition of gainful or productive
use.

   DRIVEWAY. An unobstructed paved area, or compliantly dustproofed area
per § 9-1-3(B)(9)(a), that directly connects a public or private street
with vehicle parking, loading or maneuvering areas. For residential
properties, a DRIVEWAY connects from a street to a garage, carport, or
other properly maintained and compliant parking area.

   DUMPING. Unlawful placement of debris, trash, litter, waste matter,
rubbish or garbage upon any private or public property.

   EXTERIOR INSPECTION. The visual inspection of any portion of a
residential dwelling unit that can be seen from a public street or other
right-of-way, or that can be seen from an adjacent property if a
complaint or consent to enter is received from the adjacent property
owner, lawful resident or lawful tenant.

   FENCE, MATERIALS PROHIBITED. Unless otherwise specified, prohibited
fence/wall materials include, but are not limited to: rope; string; wire
products including but not limited to chicken wire, wire fabric, and
similar welded or woven wire fabrics; chain; netting; tarp/fabric
including but not limited to mesh canvas, tarpaulin or similar non-rigid
materials; dangerous cut or broken glass; razor wire or concertina wire;
paper; unframed, naturally occurring reflective galvanized sheet or
corrugated metal panels; plywood; or fiberglass panels in any fence or
any other materials that are not manufactured or designed as fencing
materials. The Development Services Director or designee may require the
applicant to provide the manufacturer's standards to establish the
intended use of a proposed fencing material.

   FENCE, SCREEN WALL, and/or RETAINING WALL. Freestanding,
self-supporting structures constructed of durable, decay- and
moisture-resistant wood, chain link, metal, masonry, or other opaque
standard fencing materials, maintained where vertical structural members
do not list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing
through the center of gravity does not fall through the middle 1/3 of
the base, designed for decorative purposes or to provide privacy,
security, screening, or bank retention between grade separations.

   GARBAGE. An accumulation of spoiled or discarded animal or vegetable
material resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking or
consumption of food for humans or animals, as well as other organic
waste material subject to rapid decomposition, and its waste wrappers or
containers.

   GRASS. Barnyard grass, bermuda grass, bluegrass, brome, crab grass,
foxtail, Johnson grass ragweed, rye grass, wild oats, or hybrids
thereof.

   HABITABLE ROOM/SPACE. A space in a building for living, sleeping,
eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls,
storage or utility space, and similar areas, are not considered
HABITABLE SPACE.

   HAZARD. Any source of potential damage, harm or adverse health
effects on something or someone.

   IMMINENT DANGER. Any condition that could cause serious or
life-threatening injury or death at any time.

   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Parcels on which buildings or other structures are
legally located.

   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or
premises of damaging or unhealthful insects, rodents, reptiles or pests.
Insect, rodent, reptile or pest droppings indicate a presence.

   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is physically incapable of its
intended operation and is partially or wholly dismantled, discarded,
wrecked, on blocks or on similar devices, stripped or scrapped; or a
vehicle with missing or deflated tires or missing wheels; or any vehicle
that is inoperable due to mechanical failure or mechanical disability;
or any vehicle that is missing a legally assigned license plate or that
has an expired registration sticker, or one that does not have a current
registration legally issued by any state.

   INSPECTION WARRANT. An order, in writing, signed by a judge of a
court of competent jurisdiction, directed to a state, county or local
official, authorizing entry onto private property to inspect for
violations of the city code or other relevant laws and regulations.

   INTERIOR INSPECTION. A physical or visual inspection of the interior
of a residential rental dwelling unit, and other portions of a
residential rental dwelling unit that are not visible from a public
street, right-of-way or neighboring property that is made for the
purpose of discovering or confirming building code violations.

   JUDGE. A city municipal court judge or other judicial officer
authorized to issue inspection and abatement warrants.

   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle that is in such a state of deterioration that
it cannot be profitably dismantled or salvaged for parts and cannot be
profitably restored (A.R.S § 28-4881).

   LAND.  All parcels within the exterior boundaries of the city limits,
whether developed, improved, undeveloped or unimproved.

   LANDSCAPING. The placement of trees, shrubs, vegetative and organic
or inorganic materials, including gravel, cinders, rock and bark
materials.

   LAWFUL TENANT. In regards to a residential rental dwelling unit, a
renter or occupant that has a signed lease agreement with an owner of
record, agent or property manager and is not currently in arrears for
rent payments. A tenant can sign an affidavit on a form produced by the
Building and Safety Manager, or provide a signed copy of the lease, and
a declaration by the owner of record, agent or property manager that
they are current on monthly rent.

   MAJOR BODY REPAIR. The removal and replacement of body panels,
straightening of frame, replacement of more than one hinged appurtenance
(hood, door, trunk, and the like), bondo, fiberglass, and the like, or
dent repair exceeding 23% of surface area, replacement of roof.

   MINOR BODY REPAIR. Bondo, fiberglass, and the like, and dent repair
not exceeding 25% of surface area; replacing glass, windows; replacing a
bumper and installation of appurtenances like mirrors, tailgates, and
the like.

   MANAGING AGENT. A person, corporation, partnership or limited
liability company that is authorized by the owner to operate and manage
the property.

   MAJOR VEHICLE REPAIRS. The pulling of an engine block, repair or
replacement of a transmission and front and rear axles, major body
repair, dismantling, and similar work associated with automobiles, boats
or other motorized or nonmotorized vehicle repair.

   MINOR VEHICLE REPAIRS. Routine maintenance such as changing oil and
tires; replacement of water pump, alternator, brakes, shocks, oil and
air filters, and spark plugs; minor body repairs and similar work
associated with automobiles, boats or other motorized or nonmotorized
vehicle repair.

   MOTOR HOME. A motor vehicle that is designed as temporary living
quarters and that:

      (1)   Is built onto as an integral part of, or is permanently
attached to, a motor vehicle chassis;

      (2)   Contains at least 4 of the following independent,
life-support systems if each is permanently installed, operable and
designed to be removed only for purposes of repair or replacement:

         (a)   A cooking facility with an onboard fuel source;

         (b)   A gas or electric refrigerator;

         (c)   A toilet with exterior evacuation;

         (d) A heating or air conditioning system, with an onboard power
or fuel source separate from the vehicle engine;

         (e)   A potable water supply system that includes at least a
sink, a faucet and a water tank with an exterior service supply
connection;

         (f)   A 110-125 volt electric power supply.

   MUNICIPAL COURT. The City of Apache Junction Municipal Court.

   OCCUPANT or TENANT. Any person who occupies the whole or any part of
such building or land, whether alone or with others.

   OWNER. A person, persons or legal entity listed as titleholder for
parcels of land in the official records of the Pinal or Maricopa County
Recorder’s Office, or any person or entity with any ownership or
possessory or beneficiary right or interest, including deed holders,
mortgagees, lessees and other tenants, residents, and any agent of any
of same.

   PERSON. A human being, individual, enterprise, corporation, trust,
association, partnership, firm or society.

   PLANT GROWTH. Vegetation of any and all kinds, whether living or
dead.

   POLLUTED. A condition that exists in water and is characterized by
bacterial growth, algae, insect infestation, the remains of litter,
debris, garbage, or any other foreign matter that, because of its nature
or location, constitutes an unhealthy, unsafe or unsightly condition.

   POTENTIAL HAZARD. A condition that can cause an unreasonable risk of
death or serious personal injury or serious damage to property, and that
can become an imminent hazard if further deterioration occurs.

   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any parcel of land, developed or undeveloped, or
any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed or used,
either wholly or in part, for residential or commercial purposes,
whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant,
and any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps or vestibules
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other
structures.

   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Land owned by any person other than the United
States, the State of Arizona, a county, a city, a school district or a
special district.

   PROPERTY. Includes buildings, grounds, lots and tracts of land.

   PUBLIC PLACE or PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, sidewalk, easement,
boulevard, alley or other public way, and any public park, square,
space, ground or building.

   PUBLIC NUISANCE. To be injurious to health, indecent, offensive to
the senses or an obstruction to the free use of property that interferes
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire
community a neighborhood, or by a considerable number of persons.

   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT. A building or structure or part of a
building or structure that is used for a home or residence by 1 or more
persons who maintain a household. It also means a mobile/manufactured
home, regardless of ownership of the land.

   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit leased or rented to
1 or more tenants. A dwelling unit that is occupied in part by the owner
of the dwelling unit is not a RESIDENTIAL RENTAL DWELLING UNIT, unless a
tenant occupies a part of the dwelling unit that has its own cooking and
sleeping areas, a bathroom and a separate entrance, unless otherwise
provided in the city’s zoning ordinance. RESIDENTIAL RENTAL DWELLING
UNIT does not include an owner-occupied, mobile/manufactured home in a
mobile/manufactured home park that is not owned by the landlord of the
mobile home park.

   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. An owner, occupant, tenant, renter, lessor,
lessee, manager, agent, lienholder or any fiduciary or person with power
of attorney, or other person who is occupying or having charge,
possession or control of the premises, or has the authority and ability
to act on behalf of, or in the interest of, the owner. When property is
held in common by more than 1 owner, each owner is a RESPONSIBLE PERSON,
even when a homeowners’ association has been formed to manage and
maintain such commonly-owned property. Such a homeowners’ association
shall also be a RESPONSIBLE PERSON.

   SECURING. The action deemed necessary by the Building Official or
designee to protect the general safety and welfare of occupants and
public, and shall include the use of materials with sufficient strength
and structural value installed in a manner that restricts or prohibits
access.

   SLUM AREA. An area in which the public health, safety or welfare is
threatened because of any of the following:

      (1)   Dilapidated, deteriorated, aging or obsolescent buildings or
improvements;

      (2)   The inadequate provision for ventilation, light, air,
sanitation or open spaces;

      (3)   Overcrowding; and

      (4)   The existence of conditions that endanger life or property
by fire and other causes.

   SOUND CONDITION. Free from decay or defects and capable of performing
the task for which it was designed and in the manner it was intended.

   STORED. Parking, leaving, locating, keeping, maintaining, depositing,
remaining or being physically present on private property.

   STREET or HIGHWAY. A right-of-way within which improvements are
constructed for the conveyance of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and
includes highways, streets, roads and alleys, including the entire
width.

   STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE.  An offense in which the prosecution in a
legal proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of
its case. It is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act
that was prohibited, or failed to do an act that the defendant was
legally required to do.

   STRUCTURE. Includes any building or improvement constructed or placed
on land, or built or constructed on a portion thereof. Any piece of work
artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some
definite manner.

   STRUCTURE UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY.  A building improvement,
dwelling unit or premises that has conditions that are dangerous or
injurious to the health or safety of its occupants or to the occupants
of neighboring dwellings, or to residents of the city, including defects
increasing the risk of fire or accident, inadequate ventilation, light,
potable water or sanitary facilities, dilapidation, disrepair,
structural defects, uncleanliness, overcrowding, inadequate drainage,
lacking operating utility service or other essential equipment, or
infested with vermin.

   TRASH. All non-putrescible wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible, solid waste material, excluding ashes.

   UNCONTROLLED VEGETATION. Plants, trees, shrubs, grass, and the like,
allowed to grow unattended, or containing a mixture of weeds and other
plant materials, all of which includes trees, shrubs, weeds, grass, as
well as other vegetation that grows unattended along fence lines and
walls.

   UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY.  Vacant land with no lawfully approved use.

   UNSAFE EQUIPMENT. Includes any boiler, heating equipment, elevator,
moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable liquid
containers or other mechanical, plumbing or electrical equipment on the
premises or within the structure that is in such disrepair or condition
that it is a hazard to life, health, property or a risk to the public or
occupants of the premises or structure.

   UNSAFE STRUCTURE. A structure found to be dangerous to the life,
health, property or safety of its occupants or the public by not
providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn occupants, in the event
of fire, or because it contains unsafe equipment or is so damaged,
decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty construction
or unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse is likely.

   UNSHELTERED. Any area on a premise located outside a garage or
structure in such a manner as to be visible to a person standing upon
any public street, sidewalk or at ground level upon any adjoining piece
of property.

   UTILITY SERVICE. Those services required for plumbing and electrical
systems, heating and cooling systems, ventilation systems, fixtures and
appliances to properly operate, including water service, sewer service,
electric service and gas service.

   UTILITY TRAILER. A vehicle designed to be pulled by a motor vehicle,
and which is used to carry property, trash or special equipment. Boat
trailers and homemade trailers are included as UTILITY TRAILERS.

   VEHICLE. Every device by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street or highway; including but not limited
to, automobiles, motor homes, travel trailers, utility trailers or
watercraft, but excluding devices moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.

   WEEDS. Bull thistle, cocklebur, foxtail, horseweed, lambsquarters,
London rocket, mallow, milkweed, pigweed, mustards, prickly lettuce,
ragweed, Russian thistle, shepardspurse, sowthistle, white horsenettle,
willow weed, and those types of plant growth defined as noxious weeds in
A.R.S. § 3-201, regardless of whether a particular property owner or
occupant who is the subject of enforcement action under this code
regards the growth as desirable.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006; Am. Ord. 1467, passed 12-4-2018; Am. Ord.
1544, passed 4-2-2024)

§ 9-1-3 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.

   The following acts, omissions, conditions, and things in or upon any
land or structure in the city constitute public nuisances, the existence
of which are hereby prohibited and declared to be unlawful, and are
enforceable and punishable as set forth below.

   (A)   Exterior property and premises.

      (1)   (a)   Exterior property and premises shall be maintained in
a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The responsible person shall keep
that part of the exterior property that such responsible person occupies
or controls in a clean and sanitary condition. Exterior property and
premises shall be free from any accumulation of debris, trash, litter,
garbage or junk vehicles.

         (b)   Garbage shall only be stored in approved receptacles
designed to prevent leakage, designed to prevent access from animals,
rodents and insects, and designed to be washable. Bagged or loose
garbage shall not be stored for more than 24 hours outside of an
enclosed building or an approved receptacle. Date-stamped photos shall
be prima facie evidence of garbage stored in violation of this section.

         (c)   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited, store
or maintain any debris, trash or litter, on any land within the city,
unless stored safely within a lawful, enclosed building or structure, or
within a trash receptacle in such a manner as to not be visible from the
public right-of-way or a neighboring property, except as authorized by
the city or for collection under this chapter.

         (d)   It is unlawful for any person to place any garbage,
debris, trash or litter upon any private or public property not owned or
under the control of that person. In addition to any civil penalty or
criminal fine that may be imposed for violation of any provision of this
section, that person shall be liable for all costs that may be assessed
pursuant to this article for the removal of the garbage, debris, trash
or litter.

         (e)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the outside
storage of materials specifically permitted under the zoning code, and
arranged in accordance with the provisions of and covered under a permit
issued in accordance with the permit requirements of the city code.
Exterior storage of materials for work that does not require a permit is
limited to 60 calendar days. Dated photos of such storage are prima
facie evidence for enforcement purposes.

      (2)   No person shall deposit in or allow to be deposited, sweep
upon, or permit to drain into any public right-of-way, natural terrain
feature, river bed or wash, or any public place of the city, any
garbage, debris, trash or litter, obstruction, or similar matteror any
hazardous material offensive to sight or smell or that impedes passage
or is detrimental to public health, except when authorized by the city.

      (3)   It is unlawful to store, keep or maintain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or
abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under the control of any
person, and in a place accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended
or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other appliance or container with
an airtight door or lid, snaplock or other locking device that may not
be released from the inside, without first removing the door or lid,
snaplock or other locking device from the icebox, refrigerator or
container. This division shall not apply to appliances used for animal
or livestock purposes, with a latch or lock on the outside requiring a
key or combination access.

      (4)   (a)   It is unlawful for any business, corporation, firm or
person to fail to provide approved litter or trash receptacles for the
containment of litter and trash generated within or upon their premises,
or to allow litter or trash from approved receptacles to become
windblown and be disbursed about the area.

         (b)   It is unlawful for any property owner, agent or
contractor to cause, maintain, permit or allow to be caused, maintained
or permitted any accumulation of any litter or debris on any
construction or demolition site, before, during or after completion of
the project, to become windblown and carried from the site, or deposited
upon any alley, street, public place or private property.

      (5)   It is unlawful to allow the accumulation of putrid, unsound
or unwholesome bones, meat, hides, skins, or the whole or any part of
any dead animal, fish or fowl, butcher’s trimmings and offal, or any
waste vegetable or animal matter in any quantity, garbage, animal or
human excreta, sewage, or other offensive substances; provided that
nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of waste
in receptacles in the manner approved by the Pinal or Maricopa County
Health Officer or other ordinances of this city.

   (B)   Vehicles.

      (1)   Except as provided for in other regulations, no inoperable
vehicle or junk vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any premises,
and no vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major disassembly,
disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or dismantled. This
applies to all residential districts, and MHP, RVP, MPC and PI
districts.

      (2)   Performance of minor vehicle repairs is not prohibited
within residential districts, except where not allowed under covenants,
conditions and restrictions “CC&R,” homeowners’ association “HOA” rules,
or by the owner or management of a multifamily property.

      (3)   Major vehicle repairs shall be conducted inside a garage or
an approved structure.

      (4)   (a)   All vehicle repairs performed must be customary and
incidental to the principal use of the property.

         (b)   Any vehicle undergoing repair must be titled to the owner
or occupant of the property.

         (c)   Only 1 vehicle may be undergoing repair at 1 time.

         (d)   Vehicle repairs shall not exceed 10 calendar days, unless
performed inside a garage or other approved structure.

         (e)   The painting of vehicles or other parts thereof in any
residentially zoned district is prohibited, unless performed inside a
legally permitted and inspected spray booth.

         (f)   While conducting vehicle repairs, it is the property
owner’s responsibility to ensure that any and all fluids are not
discharged into the stormwater drainage system or soil.

      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display any vehicle
or boat for sale, rent or lease on undeveloped property, and no owner or
occupant of undeveloped property shall allow or permit such displays.

      (6)   The display of 1 vehicle or boat for sale is permitted at a
residence when the vehicle is titled to the owner or occupant of the
property, and is not being sold in connection with an automobile sales
business. No more than 3 vehicles or boats may be displayed for sale at
the same residence within a 12-month period, and only 1 vehicle or boat
shall be displayed for sale at 1 time.

      (7)   For all developments other than residential buildings with 4
or fewer units, affected surfaces subject to the dustproofing
requirement include any areas utilized for parking, maneuvering or
ingress and egress of on- or off-road vehicles. Access lanes and working
surfaces for vehicles shall qualify as affected surfaces. All parking,
maneuvering, ingress and egress areas at developments other than
residential buildings with 4 or fewer units must be maintained with 1 or
more of the following permanent dustproof paving methods:

         (a)   Paving with asphaltic concrete;

         (b)   Paving with Portland cement-based concrete;

         (c)   Surfacing with a penetrating asphalt and a gravel surface
known as chip sealing;

         (d)   Surfacing with, and uniformly maintaining a 2-inch-deep
layer of rock having a nominal size of 1/4-inch or larger;

         (e)   Surfacing with a 2-inch-deep layer of recycled asphalt;

         (f)   Surfacing with any other dustproof paving treatment
method that has been approved by the Development Services Director or
his or her designee.

      (8)   Undisturbed surfaces at developments other than residential
buildings with 4 or fewer units shall be exempt from the dustproofing
requirements of this section, but only if those undisturbed surfaces are
fenced or otherwise clearly delineated from affected surfaces by means
of a fence or other physical barrier. Delineated, long-term storage
stalls, where a vehicle, trailer or other item is stored and not
normally removed and replaced more than once in a 60-day period, shall
also be considered undisturbed surfaces.

      (9)   Any dustproofing shall be maintained in a manner that
prevents visible track-out.

      (10)   (a)   For any residential property with 4 or fewer units,
affected surfaces subject to the stabilization requirement include any
areas in a front yard utilized for parking, maneuvering or ingress of
on- and off-road vehicles. All parking, maneuvering, ingress and egress
areas that are 3,000 square feet or more in size, at residential
buildings with 4 or fewer units, must be stabilized with 1 or more of
the following methods:

            1.   Paving with asphaltic concrete;

            2.   Paving with Portland cement-based concrete;

            3. Surfacing with a penetrating asphalt and a gravel surface
commonly known as chip sealing;

            4. Surfacing with, and uniformly maintaining a 2-inch-deep
layer of rock having a nominal size of 1/4-inch or larger;

            5. Surfacing with a 2-inch-deep layer of recycled asphalt;
or

            6.   Surfacing with any other surface treatment that has
approved by the Development Services Director or his or her designee.

         (b)   Any stabilization shall be maintained in a manner that
prevents visible track-out over 10 feet in length.

         (c)   Undisturbed surfaces at a residential property with 4 or
fewer units shall be exempt from the stabilization requirements of this
section, but only if those undisturbed surfaces are fenced or otherwise
clearly delineated from affected surfaces by means of a fence or other
physical barrier. Even if not physically delineated, long-term storage
stalls where a vehicle, trailer or other item is stored and not normally
removed and replaced more than once in a 30-calendar-day period shall
also be considered undisturbed surfaces. Access lanes to such long-term
storage stalls shall similarly qualify as undisturbed surfaces.

      (11)   Vehicle parking shall not be allowed on an unpaved,
unstabilized, and/or undeveloped lot. For purposes of this limitation,
adjoining, commonly-owned parcels shall be deemed a single lot.

   (C)   Land maintenance and weeds.

      (1)   (a)   All persons owning or occupying land or places of
business within the city shall keep the sidewalk or public places
fronting or bordering their property free of weeds or grass in excess of
10 inches, or when such conditions create a blighting condition.

         (b)   Any landscaping, visible from public property or from
beyond the lot boundaries, that is dead, damaged or characterized by
uncontrolled vegetation, or presents a deteriorated or slumlike
appearance, is uncared for and any weeds, tall grass, shrubs or growth
(whether growing or otherwise) higher than 10 inches, or any dead trees,
bushes, shrubs or portions thereof, including stumps, or any palm or
similar type tree having dead or dry fronds descending downward from the
base of the lowest living frond more than 8 feet, or dry fronds longer
than 5 feet and closer than 8 feet to the ground, shall be removed and
disposed of in a lawful manner.

      (2)   No owner or occupant of land shall allow or permit trees,
shrubs, or plant growth on that land to impede, obstruct, or interfere
with vehicular or pedestrian passage on any street, sidewalk or alley
within the city, or allow such overgrowth to interfere with the
visibility of passing traffic or obstruct traffic control devices or
signals.

      (3)   No owner or occupant of land within the city shall allow
plant growth that is dead, or so dry as to be readily flammable or
combustible on such land that may constitute a fire hazard or other
threat to the public health or safety.

      (4)   No person shall offer to sell, sell or plant any male
mulberry tree (morus alba) or olive tree (olea europea) in the city
unless it is one of the nonpollinating varieties of such trees.

   (D)   Exterior building, structures and signage.

      (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or occupant to fail to
properly maintain, repair or replace the exposed exterior surfaces of a
building or structure, including siding, stucco, brick, stone, wood,
exterior windows, doors, canopies, metal awnings, roofs, exhaust ducts,
chimneys, painted surfaces, window screening, fences, retaining walls,
foundations, cooling devices, outdoor stairs, porches and railings as
visible from the adjacent public place, public right(s)-of-way or
neighboring property. In addition, all premises shall be structurally
sound and impervious to moisture and weather elements.

         (a)   Sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces
and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and
maintained free from hazardous conditions.

         (b)   Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony, porch, deck or other
walking surface shall be maintained in sound condition and good repair.

         (c)   Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened and
capable of supporting normally a imposed loads, and shall be maintained
in good condition.

      (2)   (a)   All buildings, structures, accessory structures,
detached garages, fences, walls and storage structures shall be
maintained in a structurally sound condition, free from blight and in
good repair, and must not be erected, altered or occupied contrary to
applicable law. Sleeping or living in an accessory structure, which is
not a legal accessory dwelling unit or residential addition, is contrary
to applicable law.

         (b)   Upon issuance of a stop work order, no person shall
continue any work on any building, structure, accessory structure,
detached garage, fence, wall or storage structure erected, altered or
occupied contrary to applicable law.

         (c)   No person shall cause, allow, leave or permit to be, or
remain in or upon any private lot, building, structure or property any
insect, bee, wasp, pigeon, rat, rodent or any vector or vermin
infestation of any kind. All premises shall be kept free from the
presence or apparent evidence of insects and rodent infestation, other
noxious pests, nesting places and any other unsightly or unsanitary
condition that could harbor insects, rodents or other vector or vermin.

         (d)   No person shall cause, allow or permit any condition or
place in populous areas that constitutes a breeding place for flies,
rodents, mosquitoes and other insects that are capable of carrying and
transmitting disease-causing organisms to any person or persons, or any
condition or place that constitutes a feral colony of honeybees that is
not currently maintained by a beekeeper, and that poses a health or
safety hazard to the public.

      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain within
the city any fence that is, or may be, dangerous to persons, children or
animals due to its design, construction, materials, maintenance or
placement.

      (4)   It shall be unlawful to allow any swimming pool or similar
body of water to stagnate, or, to be left untreated, allowing for the
growth algae, and thereby become polluted or offensive to the senses and
unsafe for its intended use. No person shall allow any swimming pool,
architectural pool, pond or spa to remain or be maintained in a
condition that may breed insects or result in insect or other
infestations; become polluted or stagnant; or create a blighting
condition.

         (a)   No person shall permit or cause the discharge of water
from any swimming pool, architectural pool or spa into any public
street, alleyway, rights-of-way or any abutting or adjacent public or
private property.

         (b)   1.   Private swimming pools, hot tubs and spas,
containing water more than 18 inches (457 mm) in depth shall be
completely surrounded by a fence or barrier, not less than 60 inches
(1,524 mm) in height above the finished ground level, measured on the
side of the barrier away from the pool. Gates and doors in such barriers
shall be self-closing and self-latching. Where the self-latching device
is not less than 54 inches (1,372 mm) above the bottom of the gate, the
release mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the gate.
Self-closing and self-latching gates shall be maintained such that the
gate will positively close and latch when released from an open position
of 6 inches (152 mm) from the gatepost. No existing pool enclosure shall
be removed, replaced or changed in a manner that reduces its
effectiveness as a safety barrier.

            2.   Exception: Spas or hot tubs with a safety cover that
complies with ASTM F 1346 shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section.

      (5)   No person shall attach or place signs on any right-of-way,
alleyway, or to any public or private utility pole or structure,
streetlight, traffic control device, tree, fence, fire hydrant, fire
escape, building access ladder, bridge, curb, sidewalk, park bench or
other location on public property, except for official government signs,
signs for city-sponsored events and signs permitted by state law.

      (6)   Buildings shall have approved address numbers placed in a
position to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road
fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their
background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet
letters. Numbers shall be not less than 4 inches (102 mm) in height,
with a minimum stroke width of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm).

   (E)   Vacant buildings and land.

      (1)   All vacant or abandoned buildings, structures or portions
thereof, shall be secured at all points of ingress and egress and
maintained against unauthorized entry at all times. Any dangerous,
deteriorated, abandoned, partially destroyed or unfinished building,
addition, appendage or other structure, or any building in violation of
this chapter and in any provision under Vol. I, Chapter 7, and any
vacated or abandoned building not securely closed at all times, shall be
secured. Any wood, metal or other material used for securing a vacated
or abandoned building must be the same color as the building.

      (2)   Any vacant lot or land, which has been used for dumping on
more than 2 occasions within a 24-month consecutive period, shall be
secured to prevent future occurrences of dumping. Methods of securing
vacant lots or lands may include any of the following: permanent
fencing; ditch and berm; placement of 4-foot-high barrier posts at
4-foot intervals; and other equally effective methods. Signs stating “No
Dumping” shall be erected in accordance with the same state laws
relating to “No Trespassing” signage. The required signage must be a
minimum of 12 by 18 inches in size, with two 3-inch lettering mounted on
durable-grade vinyl, aluminum, fiberglass or similar substrate. The
signage must be mounted on a steel support post, a minimum of 1½ inches
in diameter, and placed a minimum of 18 inches in the ground. Metal
fasteners must be used to anchor the signage to the support post.

      (3)   It is unlawful to maintain any privy, vault, cesspool,
septic system, sump, pit, private drain, or like place or thing that is
not securely protected from insects or rodents, or that is foul,
malodorous, nauseous or offensive to the senses.

   (F)   Individual property inspections.

      (1)   For individual residential rental properties, the city may
conduct interior inspections if an exterior inspection of the property
reveals, or if the property is found to have any of the following:

         (a)   Conditions that materially affect the health and safety
of the occupants as prescribed by § 9-1-3(G).

         (b)   A significant level of crime associated with the
property.

         (c)   A documented history of building code violations.

         (d)   The owner repeatedly fails to comply with building code
enforcement requirements imposed by the city.

         (e)   There is probable cause that the residential rental
property is not in compliance with the city’s building code.

         (f)   A complaint is received from a lawful tenant or consent
for inspection is given by the owner of record, agent or property
manager, a lawful resident or a lawful tenant of the residential rental
unit.

      (2)   If the city determines, pursuant to division (G) of this
section, that an interior inspection is reasonably necessary and the
property’s tenant has vacated the premises, the city may require an
additional inspection and approval by the city before a new occupancy is
permitted.

      (3)   Before entry, the city shall receive consent of the owner of
record or a lawful tenant, or on issuance of a warrant. A LAWFUL TENANT
is a tenant that presents an executed lease and is not late in the
paying of rent.

   (G)   Residential rental dwelling unit conditions. For the purposes
of this chapter, a condition that materially affects the health and
safety of the occupants of a residential rental dwelling unit includes
any of the following conditions.

      (1)   Inadequate sanitation, ventilation or space requirements,
including the following:

         (a)   Lack of or inadequate water closets, lavatories, bathtubs
or showers.

         (b)   Lack of a required kitchen sink or a kitchen sink that
does not comply with the building code of the city or town in which the
property is located.

         (c)   Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures.

         (d)   Lack of adequate heating and cooling.

         (e)   Lack of or improper operation of required ventilating
equipment, or broken or missing windows or doors that create a hazardous
condition or a potential attraction to trespassers.

         (f)   Lack of minimum amounts of natural light and ventilation
as required by the building code.

         (g)   Inadequate room and space dimensions as required by the
building code.

         (h)   Lack of adequate electricity and lighting as required by
the building code.

         (i)   Infestation of insects, vermin or rodents.

         (j)   Lack of connection to a sewage disposal system as
required by the building code.

         (k)   Lack of adequate garbage and rubbish storage and removal
facilities.

      (2)   Structural hazards, including the following:

         (a)   Significantly deteriorated or inadequate foundations, or
foundation areas that are not provided with adequate drainage.

         (b)   Flooring or floor supports of insufficient size to carry
imposed loads with safety.

         (c)   Members of walls, partitions or other vertical supports
that split, lean, list or buckle due to defective material or
deterioration.

         (d)   Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or
other horizontal members that significantly sag, split or buckle due to
defective material or deterioration.

         (e)   Fireplaces or chimneys that list, bulge or settle due to
defective material or deterioration, or that are of insufficient size or
strength to safely carry imposed loads.

      (3)   Hazardous wiring that does not conform with the building
code, or that has not been maintained in good condition, or both, and
that is not being used in a safe manner.

      (4)   Hazardous plumbing that does not conform with the building
code, or that has not been maintained in good condition, or both, and
that is not free of cross-connections and siphonage between fixtures.

      (5)   Hazardous mechanical equipment, including vents that do not
conform with the building code, or that have not been maintained in good
and safe condition and that are not working properly.

      (6)   Faulty weather protection that may include:

         (a)   Significantly deteriorated, crumbling or loose plaster.

         (b)   Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior
walls, roof, foundations or floors, including broken windows or doors.
Use of tarps or other unapproved materials for more than 30 calendar
days.

         (c)   Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior wall
coverings, including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack of paint
or other approved protective covering.

      (d)   Broken, rotted, split or buckled exterior wall coverings or
roof coverings.

      (7)   Fire hazards or inadequate fire protection, including:

         (a)   Any building or portion of a building or any device,
apparatus, equipment, combustible waste or vegetation that is not in
compliance with the building code, and that is in such a condition as to
cause a fire or explosion, or to provide a ready fuel to augment the
spread and intensity of a fire or explosion arising from any cause.

         (b)   Any building or portion of a building that is not
provided with fire-resistive construction or fire-extinguishing systems
or equipment required by the building code, except those buildings or
portions of buildings that conform with all applicable building code
laws, and that have fire-resistive integrity and fire-extinguishing
systems or equipment that has been adequately maintained and improved in
relation to any increase in occupant load, alteration or addition, or
any change in occupancy.

         (c)   Lack of adequate fire-detection systems as required by
law.

      (8)   Faulty materials or construction that is not specifically
allowed or approved by the building code, or that has not been
adequately maintained in good and safe condition.

      (9)   Hazardous or unsanitary premises, including those premises
on which an accumulation of weeds, vegetation, refuse, dead organic
matter, debris, garbage, offal, rat harborages, stagnant water,
combustible materials and similar materials or conditions constitute
fire, health or safety hazards.

      (10)   Inadequate maintenance, including any building or portion
of a building that is determined to be an unsafe building in accordance
with the building code.

      (11)   Unhealthy conditions, including any condition as defined in
the building code that results in the failure to maintain minimum
standards of sanitation, health or safety, or that renders air, food or
drink unwholesome or detrimental to health.

      (12)   Inadequate exits, including all buildings or portions of a
building that are not provided with adequate exit facilities as required
by the building code, and that have not been adequately maintained and
increased in relation to any increase in occupant load, alteration or
addition, or any change in occupancy.

      (13)   Improper occupancy, including all buildings or portions of
a building that are occupied for living, sleeping, cooking or dining
purposes and that were not designed and permitted to be used for such
occupancies, or that are occupied in excess of the maximum occupancy
load allowed by any applicable provision of the building code or state
law.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006; Am. Ord. 1316, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord.
1467, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 9-1-4

§ 9-1-4 ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT.

   (A)   Introduction. The goal of this section is to seek voluntary
compliance. Code Compliance Officers are empowered to use their
discretion in working with residents to become compliant. Identification
of violations may arise through citizen complaints, anonymous complaints
or proactive observations. Verbal warnings or door hangers are strongly
encouraged before any formal warnings are issued. The city has the
option to pursue compliance administratively by civil/criminal citation
or complaints resulting in mandatory fines and other consequences,
through court intervention, and may collect any administrative costs
associated with abatement procedures through liens and possible
foreclosure, and civil collection actions.

   (B)   Pre-civil/criminal citation/complaint; notice of violation.

      (1)   If, after an inspection and after informal attempts have
failed to encourage compliance with this article, the city shall serve
the owner, owner’s statutory or authorized agent, occupant, lessee or
person in control of the property with a notice of violation. Such
notice shall contain the following:

         (a)   Legal identification of property;

         (b)   Statement of violations in sufficient detail to allow an
owner or responsible party to identify and correct the problem;

         (c)   The expected compliance deadline of at least 10 calendar
days from the date of the notice, unless otherwise stated;

         (d)   A reinspection date;

         (e)   Physical address, email address and telephone number of a
city representative to contact;

         (f)   A warning that failure to comply may result in the filing
of a civil or criminal misdemeanor case, depending on whether this
violation is the first, second, third or fourth violation over a 24-
consecutive-month period; and

         (g)   A warning that failure to comply may also result in an
administrative or court-ordered abatement action by the city, for which
the owner or responsible person will be financially liable through a
lien process that may include foreclosure of the property.

      (2)   Any notice issued under this article shall be deemed
effective on the date when written notice is hand-delivered or mailed
certified, return receipt requested, to the individuals referenced
above. If the notice is returned showing that the letter could not be
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or
about the structure affected by the notice. Any recorded notice shall
run with the land, and shall constitute legal notice for all purposes of
this article to all parties and entities thereafter acquiring an
interest in the property. Officers may use their discretion in granting
extensions for compliance with the code, depending on the violators’
efforts to date and financial ability to comply.

   (C)   Civil/criminal citations and complaints.  

      (1)   If the owner or other responsible party fails to comply with
the notice of violation, a civil/criminal action to enforce the
provision of this article may be commenced and a summons shall be issued
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Arizona Revised
Statutes and applicable city ordinances. Jurisdiction of proceedings in
this article shall be in the municipal court of the city.

      (2)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall be
responsible for filing civil and criminal citations with the municipal
court with the following minimum penalties:

         (a)   First offense during a 24-consecutive-month period: civil
penalty of $350;

         (b)   Second offense during a 24- consecutive-month period:
civil penalty of $600;

         (c)   Third offense and subsequent offenses within 24 months of
first offense: criminal fine not to exceed $2,500, and other criminal
penalties as a result of a class 1 misdemeanor conviction.

      (3)   The 24-month period shall be calculated from the dates the
violations are committed. The owner or responsible party shall receive
the progressively higher civil penalty upon a finding of responsibility
for any violation of this article committed within 24 months of the
commission of another violation for which the owner or responsible party
was found responsible or was convicted. In no event shall the court
reduce the minimum dollar penalties referenced above. A criminal case
shall only be filed only after 2 successive civil violations have been
committed within a 24-consecutive-month period.

      (4)   Every day any violation of any provision of this article
continues shall constitute a separate violation or offense. The owner of
record, as reflected in the Pinal or Maricopa County Recorder’s Office,
may be presumed to be a person having lawful control over the building,
structure or parcel of land that is the subject of the violation. If
more than 1 person is recorded as the owner of the property, the persons
may be jointly and severally presumed to be the persons having lawful
control over the building, structure or parcel of land.

   (D)   Civil and criminal hearing procedure. A person lawfully served
with a civil citation or complaint shall appear at the time and place
stated in the citation or summons, or may appear prior to the time and
admit or deny the allegations of the complaint. Allegations not denied
at the time of appearance are deemed admitted. If the allegations are
admitted, the court shall enter judgment for the city and impose the
minimum dollar sanction as noted above. If the defendant denies the
allegations, the court shall set the matter for hearing. Civil hearings
are to be held informally and held without a jury, and the city is
required to prove the allegations by a preponderance of the evidence.
Technical rules of evidence do not apply, except for statutory
provisions relating to privileged communications. If the defendant
elects to be represented by counsel, the defendant shall so notify the
court at least 10 court days prior to the hearing date. Hearings shall
be recorded by technological devices, including tape recording or by
stenographer. If the court finds in favor of the defendant, the court
shall enter an order dismissing the citation or complaint. If the court
finds in favor of the city, the court shall enter judgment for the city
and impose the minimum dollar sanction noted above, or in the case of a
criminal matter, shall order, in addition to the mandatory minimum
dollar amount referenced above, up to $2,500, other terms such as up to
3 years probation, compliance deadlines, community service, up to 6
months jail time, and other reasonable terms as a consequence of a class
1 misdemeanor conviction.

   (E)   Appeal of civil/criminal court hearing. Any party may appeal
the judgment of the municipal court to the Superior Court under A.R.S. §
12-124. Appeals from civil proceedings shall be in accordance with the
Superior Court Rules of Appellate Procedure - Civil. Appeals from
criminal proceedings shall be in accordance with the Superior Court
Rules of Appellate Procedure - Criminal.

   (F)   Court-ordered abatement.

      (1)   In addition to any other options available to encourage
compliance set forth in this article, the City Attorney may apply to the
municipal court for an order permitting the city to abate any condition
that constitutes a violation of this article.

      (2)   Pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-500.21, after notice has been
provided to the owner and/or responsible party of the application and
hearing date, the municipal court judge shall conduct a hearing on the
City Attorney’s application, with prior notice to the owner or
responsible party as required under the Code of Civil Procedure Service
of Process rules. The hearing shall be informal, open to the public and
be recorded by technological devices, including tape recording or
stenographic devices. Evidence may be taken from any interested party
and considered in determining whether a condition in violation of this
article exists and what, if any, abatement action should be permitted.
Any person who fails to appear after notice of the hearing may be deemed
to have waived any right to introduce evidence. The court’s
determination shall be based on the preponderance of evidence standard.
Upon finding the abatement is appropriate, the court may order an
administrative search warrant and/or a demolition, board-up, or clean-up
abatement warrant.

      (3)   The reasonable costs of any abatement plus a 5%
administrative fee as permitted by the court’s order, as well as 10%
interest per annum, shall be the responsibility of the owner and/or
responsible party, and it may be collected as a lien on the property or
other lawful method by the city contained within this article or other
applicable law.

   (G)   Inspection warrants.

      (1)   As set forth herein, the Code Official may seek the issuance
of an inspection warrant by the judge, if the Code Official or his or
her authorized designee is denied access to any property, building or
structure that the Code Official has authority to inspect. The Code
Official shall, in a supporting affidavit, establish that there is
probable cause that a violation of this chapter or the city code exists,
and that the proposed inspection is reasonable and necessary. Probable
cause may be established based on any of the following:

         (a)   Previous inspections have shown violations and the
present inspection is necessary to determine whether those violations
have been abated.

         (b)   Complaints have been received by the Code Enforcement
Division and presented to the issuing Code Enforcement Officer from
persons, who by status or position have personal knowledge of the
violations of law occurring on the subject property, building or
structure.

         (c)   The inspection of the premises in question was to be made
pursuant to an administrative plan containing neutral criteria
supporting the need for the inspection.

      (2)   In executing an inspection warrant on an occupied property,
the Code Enforcement Officer shall, before entry, make a reasonable
effort to present the person’s credentials, authority and purpose to the
owner, occupant, agent, manager or person in possession of the property,
and produce the warrant or a copy thereof upon request. A copy of the
warrant shall be left with the owner, occupant, agent, manager or person
in possession of the property.

      (3)   In executing an inspection warrant on an unoccupied
property, the Code Enforcement Officer authorized to execute the warrant
need not inform anyone of the person’s authority and purpose, but may
promptly enter the designated property if it is at the time unoccupied
or not in the possession of any person, or at the time reasonably
believed to be in such condition. In such case, a copy of the inspection
warrant shall be conspicuously posted on the property.

      (4)   Any person who willfully refuses to permit an inspection
lawfully authorized by warrant issued pursuant to this section is guilty
of a class 1 misdemeanor.

      (5)   An inspection warrant shall be executed within 5 calendar
days from its issuance. The warrant shall be returned to the judge
within 3 court business days after the inspection warrant is executed.

   (H)   Administrative abatement/lien procedure.  

      (1)   The city may, as another option, administratively abate the
illegal conditions by first serving a notice to abate, which shall
include the following:

         (a)   Legal identification of property;

         (b)   Statement of violations in sufficient detail to allow an
owner or responsible party to identify and correct the problem;

         (c)   The expected compliance deadline of at least 30 calendar
days from the date of the notice;

         (d)   Reinspection date;

         (e)   Address and telephone number of a city representative to
contact;

         (f)   Cost estimate to correct the violation, including labor
and benefits of officers;

         (g)   A warning that if the violation is not corrected within
the 30- calendar-day deadline, the city may abate the nuisance and
assess the owner, his or her statutory or authorized agent, lessee,
occupant, or person in control of the property the cost of such
abatement plus a 5% administrative charge, and record a lien against the
property for payment of the assessments that may result in foreclosure
of the property;

         (h)   A warning that failure to comply may also result in the
filing of a civil or criminal misdemeanor case, depending on whether
this violation is the first, second, third or fourth violation over a
24-consecutive- month period; and

         (i)   A reminder that the notice may be appealed by filing a
notice of appeal at the Development Services Department within 20
calendar days after the notice was served; the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals will hear and decide the appeal within 60 calendar days of
filing the notice of appeal.

      (2)   If a property owner or responsible party fails to comply
with the notice within the 30-calendar- day deadline, Code Compliance
Officers may work with the property owner or responsible party and grant
an extension. However, if compliance is not forthcoming, the city may
correct or abate the conditions as described in the notice. The city
shall pay the cost and expense of the abatement from any appropriation
made available for that purpose.

      (3)   Upon commencement of action on the property, the city shall
assess the property for the cost of work performed, including but not
limited to, all additional inspections and other incidental connected
costs, and for associated legal costs plus a 5% administrative fee. If
the assessment is paid in full, including 10% interest annually
calculated, the city shall release the assessment.

      (4)   In the event it is necessary to enforce the assessment by
sale, the sale shall be made from a judgment of foreclosure and order of
sale. The city shall have the right to enforce the assessment in the
Superior Court of Pinal or Maricopa County at any time after recording,
but failure to enforce the assessment shall not affect its validity. The
recorded assessment shall be prima facie evidence of the truth of all
matters recited therein, and of the regularity of all proceedings prior
to the recording. Prior assessments or liens for the purposes provided
for in this article shall not be a bar to a subsequent assessment or
lien. Any number of liens or assessments on the same parcel may be
enforced in the same action.

      (5)   The assessment is prior and superior to all other liens,
obligations, mortgages or other encumbrances, except liens for general
taxes. The city may dispose of any property or material removed from
real property as a result of abatement in any manner, including but not
limited to, destruction or donation.

   (I)   Boarding, securing, vacating and demolition.

      (1)   If it is determined that a structure constitutes a public
nuisance as defined in this article, the City Manager, or his or her
duly appointed agent, may declare such structure a hazard with great
potential for actual and serious physical harm. After notice is
communicated to any owner of record in a notice to secure the structure,
and the owner does not secure the structure to city specifications, the
hazard may be summarily abated by the city through boarding and fencing.
The notice to secure shall be in the same format and shall be served in
the same manner as a notice to abate, as referenced above, and all
associated costs to board and fence may be collected pursuant to a lien
in the same manner as a notice to abate. If however, the conditions pose
an imminent hazard, the City Manager or his or her designee may order
immediate abatement without notice. Such abatement shall be limited to
the minimum work necessary to remove the hazard.

      (2)   Whenever the City Manager or his or her designee finds that
a structure contains an imminent hazard or health hazard, he or she may
declare it unfit for human occupancy and order it to be vacated or to
remain vacant. A structure declared unfit for occupancy shall not be
leased, rented or occupied until it has been reinspected and deemed fit
for occupancy by the city. City Code Compliance Officers shall post a
legible notice on the principal entrance stating “do not enter, unsafe
to occupy”. Entry will be considered a trespass under A.R.S. § 13-1504,
a class 1 misdemeanor.

      (3)   Prior to demolishing a structure, the city shall issue a
notice of intent to demolish structure to the owner or responsible party
with any legal interest in the property, and may record the notice in
the Pinal or Maricopa County Recorder’s office. This notice and
abatement and all associated demolition costs shall be enforced in the
same manner as a notice to abate.

      (4)   Any structure that has been declared to be an imminent
hazard by the City Manager or his or her designee, shall immediately be
vacated and shall not be re-occupied until the City Manager or his or
her designee has issued a certificate of compliance, indicating that
imminent hazards do not exist and that incipient hazards and health
hazards are acknowledged and minimized by the persons responsible for
the property. A legible notice, as referenced above, shall be posted on
the principal entrance prohibiting entry. No person occupying a
structure after the city has posted on the structure a notice of its
hazardous condition, shall be eligible for relocation assistance or be
considered a displaced person.

   (J)   Appeal of notice to abate, notice to secure, and notice of
intent to demolish. An appeal of a notice to abate, notice to secure and
notice of intent to demolish shall be filed in writing with the
Development Services Department Director, or his or her designee, within
20 calendar days after the notice was served. An appellate hearing shall
be scheduled by the Development Services Department Director, or his or
her designee, before the Board of Adjustment and Appeals no later than
60 calendar days after the notice of appeal has been filed, and such
hearing must have been held and be concluded within the same time
period.

   (K)   Grounds for appeal.

      (1)   The following are appropriate grounds for an appeal:

         (a)   The claim that the property or building subject to the
notice is not in violation under the code.

         (b)   A claim that the true intent of the code has been
incorrectly interpreted.

         (c)   A claim that the statement for costs for correcting or
abating the violation is excessive.

      (2)   The Board may affirm, reverse or modify the notice. The
Board shall conduct the hearing as it does other Board matters in its
quasi-judicial role. There shall be no fee for filing an appeal with the
Board.

      (3)   The filing of the notice of appeal shall act as an automatic
stay of enforcement of any compliance deadlines until the Board makes
its final determination. Upon making its final determination and after
it has been served on the appellant, the stay terminates and the
violator has the balance of the time left set forth in the notice.
Failure to comply within this time period may result in the issuance of
a civil or criminal citation or the filing of a complaint and abatement
procedures, subjecting the property owner and/or responsible party to
liens and possible foreclosure.

      (4)   Failure of a person to file an appeal shall constitute a
waiver of the right to a hearing of the appeal before the Board, and
such person shall be estopped to deny the validity of any order or
action of the city that could have been timely appealed.

      (5)   Once the Board has rendered its decision, a party may apply
to the Superior Court within 30 calendar days for further appellate
relief in accordance with the Arizona Rules of Procedure for Special
Actions. The filing of a special action will not stay enforcement of any
notice unless ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006; Am. Ord. 1467, passed 12-4-2018; Am. Ord.
1554, passed 11-5- 2024)

ARTICLE 9-2: REFUSE, GARBAGE, DEBRIS, JUNK, TRASH, AND LITTER REMOVAL

Section

   9-2-1   Hauling refuse, garbage, debris, junk, trash and litter

   9-2-2   Vehicles and receptacles to be spillproof

   9-2-3   Spilled refuse, garbage, debris, junk, trash and litter

   9-2-4   Dumping refuse, garbage, debris, junk, trash and litter

§ 9-2-1 HAULING REFUSE, GARBAGE, DEBRIS, JUNK, TRASH AND LITTER.

   It is unlawful for any person to haul or cause to be hauled any
refuse on or along any public street, avenue or alley in the city in
violation of any of the provisions in this chapter.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 9-2-2 VEHICLES AND RECEPTACLES TO BE SPILLPROOF.

   It is unlawful for any person to haul or cause to be hauled on or
along any public street in the city any refuse, garbage, junk, debris,
trash, litter, unless such material is contained in watertight vehicles
or vehicles with watertight receptacles constructed to prevent any such
material from falling, leaking or spilling and any odor from escaping.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 9-2-3 SPILLED REFUSE, GARBAGE, DEBRIS, JUNK, TRASH AND LITTER.

   Any person hauling any refuse, garbage, junk, debris, trash and
litter along the streets of the city shall immediately replace in the
conveyance used for such hauling any such material which may fall upon
any street.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006)

§ 9-2-4 DUMPING REFUSE, GARBAGE, DEBRIS, JUNK, TRASH AND LITTER.

   It is unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any
refuse, debris, garbage, junk, trash or litter upon any public or
private property within the city, except as specifically permitted in
this chapter.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

ARTICLE 9-3: CONSTRUCTION SITES

Section

   9-3-1   Truckloads causing litter

   9-3-2   Construction sites

   9-3-3   Inspection approval

§ 9-3-1 TRUCKLOADS CAUSING LITTER.

   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
city unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any
load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street,
alley or other public place.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 9-3-2 CONSTRUCTION SITES.

   (A)   In addition to all other requirements of this code, it shall be
a condition for the continuation of a building permit that a litter
receptacle be provided, on site, for all buildings or structures for
which such permit is issued. The litter receptacle shall be of such
design as to insure that all materials deposited therein will not be
blown out during heavy winds, shall have a minimum capacity of 3 cubic
yards per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area of the building or
structure under construction and shall be of a type approved by the
Building Official.

   (B)   The Building Official shall issue a stop work order for any
building or structure if the litter receptacle, when required, is not
provided at the inception of the framing stage of construction.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 9-3-3 INSPECTION APPROVAL.

   (A)   In addition to all other requirements of this code, it shall be
a condition of inspection approval for all buildings or structures under
construction that the construction site be free of all litter.

   (B)   The Building Official may issue a stop work order when
inspection reveals that any construction site is not being maintained
free of litter.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006)

ARTICLE 9-4: PRIVATE RECYCLING CONTAINERS

Section

   9-4-1   Definitions

   9-4-2   Registration required

   9-4-3   Application

   9-4-4   Containers

   9-4-5   Litter and trash prohibited

   9-4-6   Enforcement

   9-4-7   Impoundment

§ 9-4-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICE. The Building Inspection and Zoning
Compliance Division of the Development Services Department.

   RECYCLING CONTAINER. Any private container, whether attended or
unattended, and whether operating for profit or not, where the public is
asked to bring materials to be donated or left to be recycled,
reclaimed, processed or reused, including but not limited to newspapers,
bottles or cans.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006)

§ 9-4-2 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place or
keep a recycling container within the city limits without complying with
all of the provisions of this article and without first having
registered the recycling containers as required by this article.

   (B)   All recycling containers not registered as required by this
article shall be subject to immediate removal by the city.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 9-4-3 APPLICATION.

   (A)   Applications for recycling container registration shall be made
to the code enforcement office on a form provided by that office. The
application shall contain the following information:

      (1)   The name and address of the owner or operator and a
telephone number where the owner or operator, or the agent of the owner
or operator, can be reached.

      (2)   The location, size and type of proposed recycling container.

      (3)   The type of materials to be collected.

   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a written and signed
statement:

      (1)   From the owner of the property where the container is to be
placed, granting his or her permission for the placement of the
container; and

      (2)   Where applicable, a statement from the religious or
non-profit corporation as required by Vol. I, § 9-4-4(D).

   (C)   The term of registration for each recycling container shall be
for a period not to exceed 1 year and shall expire on January 1 of each
calendar year.

   (D)   A separate registration shall be obtained for each recycling
container location.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006)

§ 9-4-4 CONTAINERS.

   (A)   Each recycling container shall have a firmly closing lid and
have a capacity of not less than 3 cubic yards and not greater than 6
cubic yards except for reverse recycling bins. The container shall be
constructed of painted metal, rubber, wood or plastic and shall be
properly maintained in a safe and good condition. The use of shipping or
cargo containers for this purpose is prohibited.

   (B)   Reverse recycling bins shall comply with all requirements of
this article except that they shall have a capacity of not less than 3
cubic yards and not greater than 35 cubic yards.

   (C)   Containers shall be clearly marked to identify the materials
requested to be left for recycling, the name of the operator or owner of
the recycling container and a telephone number where the owner, operator
or agent of the owner or operator may be reached at any time. The size
for the sign or markings on any side of the container shall not exceed
25% of the total area of the same side of the container. All markings
required by this section shall be neatly lettered or stenciled in a
professional manner.

   (D)   No container shall identify a religious or non-profit
corporation without the written permission of such religious or
non-profit corporation; the permission must be submitted at the time
that the application is made for a recycling container permit. The city
reserves the right to make further inquiries and require proof of the
religious or non profit status that is being claimed.

   (E)   Containers may be located only within the parking lot of
private property lawfully zoned, developed and used for commercial or
industrial purposes, manufactured home parks, manufactured home
subdivisions and recreational vehicle parks, or at schools, churches or
charitable organizations which have similar parking facilities.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006; Am. Ord. 1403, passed 5-20-2014)

§ 9-4-5 LITTER AND TRASH PROHIBITED.

   (A)   No person shall place any litter, garbage or trash at any
recycling container, and no person shall place any material in any
recycling container except the materials named on the outside of the
container. No person shall leave any materials outside of a container.

   (B)   Each recycling container owner or operator shall provide
adequate enough pickups and clean up of the general area to prevent any
materials from accumulating outside the containers.

   (C)   The owner or operator of the recycling container and the
property owner shall jointly or severally maintain all exterior areas
within 25 feet of the container free from litter.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 9-4-6 ENFORCEMENT.

   (A)   The code enforcement office is assigned the responsibility of
enforcing this article and is granted the authority expressly granted or
implied as needed and necessary for enforcement.

   (B)   For a violation of this article or issued registration, the
code enforcement office or a designee may revoke a registration, which
has been issued under this article, upon 10 days written notice to the
permit holder who may request a hearing with the code enforcement office
prior to the expiration of the 10-day notice; and/or

   (C)   The code enforcement office or a designee may commence an
action in Municipal Court against the operator or owner, or agent of the
operator or owner, of a recycling container which is in violation of
this article or issued registration.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 9-4-7 IMPOUNDMENT.

   (A)   In addition to the penalties provided for in this code, any
recycling container which is in violation of this article or issued
registration may be removed at the operator's or owner's expense. The
container shall be impounded until the operator or owner reimburses the
city for the cost of removal and storage. In the event the operator or
owner of an impounded recycling container has not reimbursed the city
within 60 days of its removal, the city may dispose of the container or
use it for some city-related purpose.

   (B)   Prior to the removal and impoundment of a recycling container,
the city shall conspicuously attach a notice to the container allowing
the owner or operator 24 hours to bring the container into compliance.
The code enforcement office shall also attempt to contact the owner or
operator at the phone number listed on the registration application or
container and advise as to the posting of the notice. If the container
has not been brought into compliance by the time established by the
notice, the container will be removed and impounded.

   (C)   In the event any recycling container creates a hazard to the
health, welfare and safety of the public, the container shall be
immediately removed and impounded without the notice as outlined in
division (B) of this section.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006)

ARTICLE 9-5: COLLECTION OF RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE

Section

   9-5-1   Legislative purpose

   9-5-2   Jurisdiction

   9-5-3   Definitions

   9-5-4   Residential solid waste collection contractor

   9-5-5   Vehicle and collection equipment maintenance

   9-5-6   Changes in market conditions

   9-5-7   Residential solid waste collection requirements

   9-5-8   Preparation of solid waste collection

   9-5-9   Spilling of solid waste during transport

   9-5-10   Use of another’s receptacle

   9-5-11   General resident responsibilities

   9-5-12   Hazardous waste and special refuse

   9-5-13   Permitted days and hours of collection

   9-5-14   Receptacles; standards for placement, removal, and storage;
exemptions

   9-5-15   Inspections

   9-5-16   Enforcement and penalties

§ 9-5-1 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE.

   The purpose of this article and the regulations contained herein is
to regulate the collection of residential solid waste to: (i) promote
the public health, safety and general welfare of the city and its
citizens; (ii) avert and mitigate any detrimental effects associated
with the accumulation of trash, illegal dumping, insufficient solid
waste collection receptacles, substandard collection vehicles and/or
equipment.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-2 JURISDICTION.

   Pursuant to A.R.S. §§ 49-704 and 49-765, the City Manager or designee
is authorized to implement and enforce the provisions of this article.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-3 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   BULK WASTE. Any waste material too large, based on size or volume,
for deposit in an approved solid waste container or recycling container
(if provided) such as, but not limited to: yard waste, household or
outdoor furniture, cardboard, and large appliances, not including any
other unacceptable residential solid waste as defined in this article.

   COLLECTION. The scheduled pickup of solid waste, recyclables, and
bulk waste.

   COLLECTION RECEPTACLE. A 96-gallon solid waste or recycling
receptacle.

   COLLECTION SERVICES. Curbside pickup of solid waste, recyclable
materials, and bulk waste.

   CONTAMINANT. Something that contaminates, spoils, pollutes or makes
unclean and unfit for use.

   CONTRACTOR. A legal entity that collects solid waste pursuant to
award of the contract by the city.

   COVERED RESIDENCES. Refers to any residential property or properties
that are located within the Apache Junction city limits including
single-family, duplexes, triplexes and four-plexes as interpreted by the
Zoning Administrator.

   GARBAGE. Every accumulation of animal, vegetable or other matter
that: 1) results from the preparation and consumption of edible
foodstuffs; 2) results from the decay or storage of meats, fish, fowl,
or vegetables, inclusive of the cans, containers or wrappers of such
materials; and 4) any waste, material for where there is not currently
or feasible collection system available.

   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any discarded material hazardous by reason of its
pathological, explosive, flammable, radiological, corrosive, reactive or
toxic nature, and any material that can cause damage or injury to
property or persons to include, but not limited to: any chemical,
compound, mixture, substance, product or other material which is a
hazardous waste pursuant to A.R.S. § 49-921.5 as may be amended from
time to time, and as identified by the U.S Environmental Protection
Agency.

   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Dogs, cats, hamsters, guinea pigs, ferrets, gerbils,
turtles and tortoises (except for illegal desert native species),
lizards, canaries, parakeets, and any other domesticated animal cared
for by a responsible party and not for the consumption of food.

   LIVESTOCK, LARGE. Cattle, oxen, horses, mules, donkeys, alpaca,
llama, sheep, goats or similar sized hoofed animals weighing in excess
of 75 pounds.

   LIVESTOCK, SMALL. Rabbits, potbellied pigs, parrots, pigeons, ducks,
hens (not roosters), geese or similar sized animals weighing less than
75 pounds.

   MANURE. Refuse of stables, yards, corrals or barnyards consisting of
animal, livestock or fowl excreta.

   NOTICE. A written instrument served by the city which indicates the
process to be followed in order to comply with this article.

   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association or group or
any combination thereof acting as a unit.

   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The head of the city's Public Works Department
or designee thereof.

   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL OR RECYCLABLES. Any solid waste separated from
other solid waste for the purpose of being recycled which might include,
but is not limited to: newsprint, printed material, pasteboard, paper
and beverage containers, wood, metals, plastics, glass, cardboard and
paper. Contractor shall provide a list of acceptable items for recycling
collection which may be subject to change due to market conditions.

   RECYCLING. The process of collecting, separating, cleansing, treating
and reconstituting post-consumer materials that would otherwise become
solid waste and returning them to the economic stream in the form of raw
material for reconstituted products which meet the quality standards
necessary to be used in the marketplace.

   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, trash, refuse, including solid,
liquid, semi-solid liquid, or semi-solid or contained gaseous material,
and any recyclable material collected from any structure or premises
used as a domicile, dwelling or habitation, including single-family,
duplexes, triplexes and four-plexes.

   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any person, owner, occupant, lessor, lessee,
manager, licensee, tenant, inhabitant or other person having care and
control over a structure or parcel of land that generates solid waste or
recycling material.

   SOLID WASTE. Any accumulation of putrescible and non-putrescible,
solid and semi-solid material to include trash, refuse, litter or
garbage.

   SOLID WASTE GENERATOR. Property owner, occupant, lessor, lessee,
manager, responsible party, or tenant that generate solid waste, as
defined in this article, on the premises of the property.

   TAGGING. Placement of a tag or label on receptacles with details of
violation.

   UNACCEPTABLE WASTE. 

      (1)   Hazardous waste;

      (2)   Radioactive, volatile, corrosive, highly flammable,
explosive, biomedical, infectious, biohazardous or toxic waste as
defined by applicable law; or

      (3)   Any otherwise regulated waste.

   WHITE GOODS. Discarded appliances including refrigerators, freezers,
oven ranges, water heaters, dishwashers, washers, dryers, trash
compactors, window unit air conditioners, evaporative coolers, water
softeners and other similar large residential appliances.

   YARD WASTE. Organic yard waste from maintenance activities including
but not limited to: brush, grass and vegetation clippings, weeds, twigs,
leaves, limbs, branches, stumps, trunks from trees, and palm fronds.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-4 RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION CONTRACTOR.

   The contractor that is awarded a contract by City Council may collect
residential solid waste within the city limits provided it complies with
the provisions of this article, the city contract, request for
proposals, and other applicable city regulations, including but not
limited to, possessing a current valid city business license and current
valid sales tax license and paying all applicable transaction privilege
taxes pursuant to Apache Junction City Code, Vol. I, Chapter 8, and
Apache Junction City Tax Code, Chapter 8A.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-5 VEHICLE AND COLLECTION EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.

   (A)   All vehicles and collection equipment used for residential
solid waste collection shall be maintained, be of readily cleanable
construction and watertight, and shall comply with all applicable
federal, state and local regulations. In addition, all drivers of
residential solid waste collection vehicles shall be licensed in
accordance with all applicable laws.

   (B)   The outside of each vehicle must be clearly identified with the
contractor company name, logo and vehicle identification number. All
vehicles must be kept in sanitary condition and in good repair.
Hydraulic/oil fluid leaks must be monitored and corrected daily.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)   

§ 9-5-6 CHANGES IN MARKET CONDITIONS.

   If market conditions improve to a mutually agreed upon level, the
city and contractor agree to meet in good faith to determine any
necessary update on the rate of recycling services. However, if market
conditions develop that limit or inhibit contractor or a third-party
processor from selling some or all of the recyclable material,
contractor may at its option and upon submittal of a written request to
city: (i) redefine what is acceptable and unacceptable recyclable
materials; (ii) suspend or discontinue any or all recycling services; or
(iii) dispose of the acceptable recyclable material in a landfill and
update the pricing to city accordingly. Any such actions, if taken,
shall be mutually agreed upon by city and contractor and may be reversed
or further changed as market conditions dictate.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-7 RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS.

   (A)   Covered residences are required to subscribe to a weekly solid
waste collection service provided through a contract with a contractor
as awarded by City Council and the residents thereon shall pay the cost
of such collection services to the contractor. Failure to subscribe
shall be addressed pursuant to Vol. I, § 9-5-16.

   (B)   Upon determination of eligibility by the City Manager or
designee, division (A) above shall not apply to homes where a homeowner
association ("HOA") has a contract in place that was entered into prior
to the effective date of the contract awarded by the City Council for
collection of residential solid waste. If deemed eligible, the date upon
which division (A) will become effective for each such home shall be the
date of expiration for the HOA contract. To be eligible for delayed
weekly collection service the HOA must provide a fully-executed and
valid copy of the contract to the City Manager or designee.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-8 PREPARATION OF SOLID WASTE FOR COLLECTION.

   (A)   The contractor will only collect solid waste that is properly
prepared for pickup as described in the below divisions.

   (B)   Solid waste shall be prepared for pickup as follows:

      (1)   Collection receptacles shall be used for curbside collection
of residential waste.

      (2)   Garbage must be drained of liquids and shall be placed in
plastic bags and tied before being placed in receptacles.

      (3)   Solid waste shall be placed in solid waste receptacles only.

      (4)   Residential customers may dispose of yard waste in solid
waste receptacles as long as there is room for the regular solid waste
and such material does not interfere with emptying of the solid waste
receptacle in any way.

      (5)   The contents of an individual solid waste receptacle shall
not exceed 200 pounds.

      (6)   Waste from small livestock and household pets shall be
placed in a bag, securely tied and placed in the solid waste receptacle.
For questions on other animal waste disposal options, residents may
contact contractor.

   (C)   Recyclables shall be prepared for pickup as follows:

      (1)   Recyclables shall be free of contaminants and must be
reasonably clean, empty, dry and loose, and shall not be bagged or put
in a sealed box when placed in recycling receptacles.

      (2)   Only recyclables may be placed in recycling receptacles.
Large boxes and cartons shall be cut up or collapsed before being placed
in the receptacle.

      (3)   Recycling collection services will only collect recyclables
contained in the receptacles.

      (4)   Shredded paper can be placed in receptacles unbagged.

   (D)   Bulk trash shall be prepared for pickup as follows:

      (1)   Bulk trash is collected on an on-call basis once a month.

      (2)   A pile up to 4 feet by 4 feet by 8 feet and shall be
considered a single load of bulk trash. Larger amounts or additional
scheduled bulk pickups in the same month shall be subject to an
additional fee.

      (3)   Sticks/branches/vegetation must be bundled. Dimensions of
bundles not to exceed 5 feet in length by 12 inches in diameter.

      (4)   Bulk trash shall be placed on private property within plain
view as seen from the public right-of-way for pickup no earlier than the
day immediately preceding the designated collection day.

      (5)   Items must be placed parallel to the street adjacent to the
owner's property line for collection.

      (6)   Bulk trash may not be placed on sidewalks, curbing or public
right-of-way in any manner as to interfere with or be hazardous to
pedestrians or vehicles, or with any mechanized collection vehicle.

      (7)   Appliances, air conditioners and other items that involve
refrigerant will not be accepted as part of the bulk trash service.

      (8)   Items not accepted for collection will be left and include:
material resulting from construction, repair or demolition of the
premises; large auto parts; tires; used oil; rocks, soil-like and
concrete materials; and unbagged or loose cactus, leaves and grass
clippings. These items shall be disposed of in a landfill by the
responsible party or can be disposed of in a manner recommended by the
contractor.

      (9)   Century plants, cacti and similar plants that could harm
collection employees shall be contained in cardboard boxes with a total
weight not to exceed 40 pounds per box.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-9 SPILLING OF SOLID WASTE DURING TRANSPORT.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to haul, or cause to be hauled,
on or along any public street, right-of-way or alley in the city, any
solid waste or recyclables unless such material is contained in the
vehicle or receptacle in a manner that prevents the contents from
falling out, leaking or spilling, and prevents obnoxious odor from
escaping. If any solid waste or recyclables fall out, leak or spill,
such hauler shall immediately clean up the refuse, recyclables or
liquid.

   (B)   Failure to properly secure a load and any covering of the load
to prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any
manner a hazard to other users of the roadway could result in a
violation of A.R.S § 28-1098 or applicable city codes which may be
amended from time to time.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-10 USE OF ANOTHER'S RECEPTACLE.

   It is unlawful for any person to deposit, or cause to be deposited,
any solid waste or recyclables in any collection receptacle not assigned
to that person by the contractor.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-11 GENERAL RESPONSIBLE PARTY RESPONSIBILITIES.

   (A)   Provide for the collection, control and disposition of solid
waste in or upon any and all premises owned, leased or occupied by or
for them.

   (B)   Keep lids for collection receptacles down in a closed position
at all times in order to prevent flies, except when a collection
receptacle is being filled, emptied or cleaned.

   (C)   Maintain collection receptacles to accommodate the solid waste
and recycling disposal needs of such residence.

   (D)   Maintain collection receptacles in good repair and in sanitary
condition, free of any markings or decals not placed on the receptacles
by the city or contractor. Receptacles that have become unserviceable
due to ordinary wear and tear will be replaced by the contractor at no
cost to the customer. If receptacles supplied by the contractor require
repair or replacement for reasons due to customer tampering or
mishandling, the cost of such work may be charged to the customer.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-12 HAZARDOUS WASTE AND SPECIAL REFUSE.

   (A)   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in any
collection receptacle dangerous or hazardous waste that may damage the
collection equipment or be a threat to the health, safety and welfare of
the collection employees or general public.

   (B)   Hazardous waste shall be placed in an appropriate, closed
container and plainly and properly marked in accordance with applicable
law and industry standards. For questions on hazardous waste disposal,
residents may call the city's Public Works Director or designee.

   (C)   Explosives such as firearms, ammunition, souvenirs or explosive
items or powder of any kind and highly flammable materials shall not be
placed in any collection receptacle. For questions on explosives
disposal, residents may call the city's Police Department.

   (D)   Acids, caustics and rapid oxidizers, including chemicals used
in swimming pools, shall not be disposed of in collection receptacles.
For questions on chemicals disposal, residents may the city's Public
Works Director or designee.

   (E)   Dead large livestock may not be placed in plastic bags, tied
and placed in a solid waste receptacle. For questions on large animal
disposal options, residents may call the Paws and Claws Center as a
resource.

   (F)   For questions on disposal of dead animals in the public
right-of-way, residents may call the city's Police Department for
assistance.

   (G)   Medical sharps may not be placed in collection receptacles. For
disposal options, residents may call the city's Police Department.

   (H)   Lead acid batteries, such as automobile or other vehicle
batteries, shall not be disposed of in collection receptacles. For
disposal options, residents may call the Public Works Director or
designee.

   (I)   Waste soil, sand, concrete, masonry block, rock and similar
materials shall not be placed in a collection receptacle nor stored in
the right-of-way and shall only be disposed of in a legal manner by the
responsible party.

   (J)   Warm or hot coals or ashes shall not be placed in any
collection receptacle.

   (K)   Manure may not be placed in the regular solid waste or
recycling collection receptacles. For disposal options, residents may
call the contractor or the City Manager's office.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-13 PERMITTED DAYS AND HOURS OF COLLECTION.

   (A)   Residential solid waste shall be collected at a minimum once
per week, but no more than twice per week. Recycling shall be collected
no more than once a week. The contractor may collect recyclable
materials from the same customer on the same day as residential solid
waste. Collection may take place between the days of Monday through
Friday. Where such collection day(s) falls on a federal or state
holiday, the contractor shall communicate to customers the changes in
the scheduled pickup due to a holiday as waste must still be collected
that week. In the event of changes in the scheduled pickup due to
inclement weather related events the contractor shall also communicate
to customers the changes in the scheduled pickup.

   (B)   Residential solid waste shall be collected between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. mountain standard time ("MST"), on authorized
collection days referenced in division (A) of this section. In the case
of an emergency, the contractor may request extended hours. Such request
must be submitted to the Public Works Director or designee, and, if
subsequently approved, the contractor must within 24 hours thereafter
submit a written request to the Public Works Director or designee
substantiating the need for the extended hours.

   (C)   Nothing in this article restricts the city from allowing
special collection days in connection with community cleanup programs,
bulk, recyclables, or white goods.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-14 RECEPTACLES; STANDARDS FOR PLACEMENT, REMOVAL, AND STORAGE;
EXEMPTIONS.

   (A)   All receptacles used by covered residences to store residential
solid waste and for collection thereof shall be constructed out of
plastic and have a capacity of 96 gallons. Upon agreement between the
contractor and the responsible party of a multi-family dwelling unit a
dumpster may be used instead of individual receptacles. On all
receptacles there shall be identifying marks with the name of
contractor. It is unlawful to place residential solid waste outside of
the appropriate receptacles awaiting collection, even if contained in
plastic bags, paper boxes or other receptacles.

   (B)   Residential solid waste receptacles shall be placed for
collection as follows:

      (1)   All residential solid waste receptacles shall be located,
positioned, and placed for collection in a manner to facilitate the safe
handling of receptacles by contractor vehicles according to the
following:

         (a)   Solid waste receptacles must be placed in front of the
property of the solid waste generator.

         (b)   Solid waste receptacles must not be located more than 6
inches from the edge of the street.

         (c)   Solid waste receptacles must not be located on sidewalks.

         (d)   Solid waste receptacles must not obstruct any mailboxes,
fire hydrants, or the entrance/exit to any unassociated properties.

         (e)   Solid waste receptacles lids must be closed to avoid the
generation of windblown refuse or nuisance vectors.

         (f)   City shall not be responsible for damage to or loss of
receptacle.

      (2)   Residential solid waste collection receptacles shall be
placed at the curb in front of the premises, except that at any corner
lot, such receptacles shall be placed at the curb of the side street.
Receptacles may be positioned curbside beginning at 4:00 p.m. the day
before collection, but must be removed no later than 6:00 a.m. after the
day of collection. Receptacles shall not be placed on sidewalks, curbs
or anywhere within the public right-of-way (except as described in
division (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section on collection days only), in
a manner so as to interfere with or be hazardous to pedestrians,
vehicles or other residences or other structures.

      (3)   To prevent residential solid waste receptacles from being
left on the street or easily visible in yards from the street,
receptacles shall be placed in or to the side of a garage, carport,
residential unit, in the backyard, behind a fence or natural
landscaping, decorative screen wall or other structure, to conceal from
public view as much as possible.

   (C)   Exemptions. With the exception of division (B)(1) above, the
provisions do not apply to mobile/manufactured home/recreational
vehicle, trailer parks/subdivisions in which a common receptacle is
placed, maintained or is otherwise controlled or provided by the
operator, manager or homeowner's association of the park or subdivision,
provided such receptacle is located within the boundaries of the park or
subdivision and is not located within the city's right-of-way.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-15 INSPECTIONS.

   (A)   The City Manager or designee may conduct inspections in
response to reports of violations of this article, within the daily
duties of their job requirements, or with reasonable cause that a
violation has occurred or is occurring. The city shall seek voluntary
compliance prior to issuing a notice of violation. Voluntary compliance
may be sought by notifying a responsible party stating the violation by
tagging a collection receptacle, or by personal delivery, or by first
class U.S. mail.

   (B)   For the purpose of investigation of violation(s), enforcement
officer(s) or city representatives may only inspect private residential
property with the responsible party's consent. In the event that access
is denied or cannot be reasonably obtained, private residential property
can only be entered with a court-ordered warrant.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

§ 9-5-16 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.

   (A)   Contractor shall notify each responsible party of the
subscription requirements, to include all fee plans and options. The
notice shall be in writing sent by first class U.S mail. Once
subscription is secured, contractor shall provide waste and recycling
services.

   (B)   Failure of a responsible party to subscribe to residential
solid waste collection services shall be pursued by the contractor in
writing by certified mail/return receipt requested and first class U.S.
mail to the responsible party and notification shall be made to the City
Manager or designee on a quarterly basis.

   (C)   Failure of a responsible party to comply with this or any other
provisions of this article may be issued a notice of violation by
certified mail/return receipt requested and first class U.S. mail by the
city containing the following information:

      (1)   Identification of property in violation.

      (2)   Detailed statement of violation in reference to article
provisions.

      (3)   Date violation occurred.

      (4)   Business contact information of the citing officer or
official.

      (5)   The action required to come into compliance.

      (6)   Time period to come into compliance and re-inspection date
(minimum grace period of 14-calendar days).

      (7)   Consequences for continued non-compliance.

   (D)   Should the responsible party fail to comply, the City Manager
or designee may direct compliance as per division (E).

   (E)   Civil citations may be pursued only after the notice set forth
in division (C) has been refused, ignored, or full compliance has
failed.

   (F)   The following process shall be followed to gain compliance with
this article:

      (1)   If the responsible party fails to comply with a notice of
violation, a civil/criminal action to enforce the provision of this
article may be commenced and a summons shall be issued in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Arizona Revised Statutes and applicable
city ordinances. Jurisdiction of proceedings in this article shall be in
the municipal court of the city.

      (2)   The City Manager or designee shall be responsible for filing
civil and criminal citations with the municipal court with the following
minimum penalties:

         (a)   First offense during a 24-consecutive month period: civil
penalty of $350;

         (b)   Second offense during the same 24-consecutive month
period: civil penalty of $600;

         (c)   Third offense and subsequent offenses within the same
24-consecutive month period: class 1 misdemeanor criminal fine of not
less than $1,000 up to $2,500, and other penalties as a result of the
conviction.

      (3)   The 24-consecutive month period shall be calculated from
when the first violation is committed. The responsible party shall
receive the progressively higher civil penalties noted above in division
(F)(2). In no event shall the court reduce the minimum dollar penalties
referenced above. A criminal case shall only be filed only after 2 civil
violations of the same type have been committed within the
24-consecutive month period.

      (4)   The owner of record, as reflected in the Pinal or Maricopa
County Recorder's Office, may be presumed to be a person having lawful
control over the building, structure or parcel of land that is the
subject of the violation. If more than 1 person is recorded as the owner
of the property, the persons may be jointly and severally presumed to be
the persons having lawful control over the building, structure or parcel
of land.

   (G)   Civil and criminal hearing procedure. A person lawfully served
with a civil citation or complaint shall appear at the time and place
stated in the citation or summons, or may appear prior to the time and
admit or deny the allegations of the complaint. Allegations not denied
at the time of appearance are deemed admitted. If the allegations are
admitted, the court shall enter judgment for the city and impose the
minimum dollar sanction as noted above. If the defendant denies the
allegations, the court shall set the matter for hearing/trial. Civil
hearings are to be held informally and held without a jury, and the city
is required to prove the allegations by a preponderance of the evidence.
Technical rules of evidence do not apply, except for statutory
provisions related to privileged communications. If the defendant elects
to be represented by counsel, the defendant shall so notify the court at
least 10 court days prior to the hearing date. If the court finds in
favor of the defendant, the court shall enter an order dismissing the
citation or complaint. If the court finds in favor of the city, the
court shall enter judgment for the city and impose the minimum civil
penalties and criminal fines referenced above and other appropriate
terms/conditions.

   (H)   Appeal of civil/criminal court hearing/trial. Any party may
appeal the judgment of the municipal court to the superior court under
A.R.S. § 12-124. Appeals from civil proceedings shall be in accordance
with the Superior Court Rules of Appellate Procedure-Civil. Appeals from
criminal proceedings shall be in accordance with the Superior Court
Rules of Appellate Procedure-Criminal.

(Ord. 1483, passed 12-3-2019)

ARTICLE 9-6: COLLECTION OF COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE

Section

   9-6-1   Compliance with city business and sales tax licensing
provisions

   9-6-2   Permitted days and hours of collection

§ 9-6-1 COMPLIANCE WITH CITY BUSINESS AND SALES TAX LICENSING
PROVISIONS.

   The city or any other person, individual, partnership, association,
company or corporation may collect commercial solid waste within the
city limits provided they comply with the provisions of this article,
and other applicable city regulations including but not limited to
possessing a current valid city business license and current valid sales
tax license and paying all applicable transaction privilege taxes
pursuant to Vol. I, Chapter 8.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006)

§ 9-6-2 PERMITTED DAYS AND HOURS OF COLLECTION.

   Commercial solid waste shall be collected between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Mountain Standard Time, Mondays through Fridays. In
the case of an emergency, commercial solid waste collection agencies may
request extended hours. Such request must be submitted to the Public
Works Director telephonically, and if subsequently approved, commercial
solid waste collection agencies must, within 24 hours thereafter, submit
a written request to the Director substantiating the need for the
extended hours. The collection agency may collect commercial solid waste
once a week if it also collects recyclable materials from the same
customer at the same time as the commercial solid waste, and obtains a
variance from the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality based on
an acceptable plan approved by the Pinal County Department of
Environmental Services demonstrating that no public health hazards or
nuisances will exist and that fly breeding will be controlled by either
biological, chemical or mechanical means.

(Ord. 1255, passed 1-3-2006; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 4-7-2009)

CHAPTER 10: OFFENSES

      Article

         10-1.   OFFENSES; GENERAL

         10-2.   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS IN VEHICLES

         10-3.   UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS BY MINOR

         10-4.   BAD CHECKS

         10-5.   PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES

         10-6.   GRAFFITI

         10-7.   MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS

ARTICLE 10-1: OFFENSES; GENERAL

Section

   10-1-1   [Reserved]

   10-1-2   Dangerous construction

   10-1-3   Damage to property

   10-1-4   Deposits of injurious material on thoroughfares

   10-1-5   Excavations to be covered

   10-1-6   Explosives

   10-1-7   False or misleading reports to police

   10-1-8   [Reserved]

   10-1-9   Furnishing weapons and other articles to prisoners

   10-1-10   [Reserved]

   10-1-11   Curfew

   10-1-12   Noise

   10-1-13   Obstruction of streets

   10-1-14   Obstruction of view

   10-1-15   Offensive business

   10-1-16   Offensive premises

   10-1-17   Prostitution and related offenses

   10-1-18   Searchlights

   10-1-19   Signs and banners

   10-1-20   Spitting

   10-1-21   Water flow upon streets

   10-1-22   Public places of entertainment

   10-1-23   Misuse of 911 emergency telephone number system

   10-1-24   Public urination and defecation

   10-1-25   Offensive use of motor vehicles

   10-1-26   Parking near public thoroughfares

   10-1-27   Skateboarding on specified municipal property

   10-1-28   Steel-jaw traps

   10-1-29   Truancy

   10-1-30   Leaf blower use

   10-1-31   Off-highway vehicles on unpaved surfaces

   10-1-32   Dust control for haul trucks

§ 10-1-1 [RESERVED]

§ 10-1-2 DANGEROUS CONSTRUCTION.

   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any signs,
billboards, awnings or other similar structures over or near streets,
sidewalks, public grounds or places frequented by the public, so
situated or constructed as to endanger the public safety.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-2) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-3 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to damage or attempt to damage in
any manner or tamper with any pipe, line, water hydrant, street lamp or
light, or the fixtures and appliances thereunto belonging upon any of
the poles or other objects for use in connection with the lighting of
the streets of the city or any water pipes, hydrants or any appliances
pertaining to the water or sewer works, or any other property of any and
every character belonging to the city.

   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to deface, walk, ride or drive
upon or over any sidewalk or street crossing composed of or containing
cement, during the construction thereof, or before the same is open to
public use.

   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to damage in any manner any road,
street or bridge in the city limits by using the same, by heavy
vehicles, malicious destruction or by any act that will result in damage
to any such road, street or bridge.

   (D)   It is unlawful to break or destroy any window, door or part of
any dwelling owned or occupied by another or to break or sever from any
premises owned or occupied by another any gate, fence, railing, tree,
brush or vine or any property whatsoever, or to deface, mutilate or
injure the same.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-3) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-4 DEPOSITS OF INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES.

   It is unlawful for any person, either willfully and maliciously or
carelessly and negligently, to drop, throw, place or scatter upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or public place in the city any nails, tacks,
broken glass, glass bottles or any instrument or thing whatsoever of
such nature as to be capable of injuring persons or property.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-4) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-5 EXCAVATIONS TO BE COVERED.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to make any excavation or dig any
hole, drain or ditch in any highway or thoroughfare in the city without
providing a sufficient light at night and a temporary fence or suitable
obstruction around or in front of such excavation during the day.

   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a well, cellar, pit
or other excavation of more than 2 feet in depth on any unenclosed lot
without providing substantial curbing, covering or protection of the
excavation.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-5) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-6 EXPLOSIVES.

   It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the city to blast
or use powder, fireworks or other explosives without a permit in writing
from the Chief of Police.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-6) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-7 FALSE OR MISLEADING REPORTS TO POLICE.

   It is unlawful for any person willfully to make to the Police
Department of the city any false, fraudulent, misleading or unfounded
report or statement, or willfully to misrepresent any fact for the
purpose of interfering with the operation of the Police Department or
with the intention of misleading any police officer.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-7) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-8 [RESERVED]

§ 10-1-9 FURNISHING WEAPONS AND OTHER ARTICLES TO PRISONERS.

   It is unlawful for any person to furnish or attempt to furnish or
take into jail or to deliver or attempt to deliver to any prisoner
therein confined, or in the custody of any officer, any weapon, tool,
intoxicating liquors, drug or other article.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-9) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-10 [RESERVED]

§ 10-1-11 CURFEW.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person 14 years of age and under 18
years of age to remain upon, go or be upon any public street, alley or
other public place of the city between 10:00 p.m. and 5:30 a.m. on
Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and between the hours
of 12:00 a.m. and 5:30 a.m. on Friday and Saturday, unless that person
is accompanied by a parent, guardian or some other person above the age
of 18 years having legal custody of the minor or is en route directly
home from the minor's place of employment or an authorized function
sponsored by a church, educational institution, civic or social
organization or any other legal activity whether it be conducted on
private, commercial or public property.

   (B)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 14 years to
remain upon, go or be upon any public street, alley or other public
place of the city between 10:00 p.m. and 5:30 a.m. on any day, unless
that person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or some other person
above the age of 18 years having legal custody of the minor or is en
route directly home from a minor's place of employment or an authorized
function sponsored by a church, educational institution, civic or social
organization or any other legal activity whether it be conducted on
private, commercial or public property.

   (C)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person above
the age of 18 years having legal custody of the minor to allow or permit
such minor to remain upon, go or be upon any public street, alley or
other public place of the city between the hours set forth in this
section unless accompanied by that parent, guardian or other person
having legal custody of the minor or is en route directly home from the
minor's place of employment or an authorized function sponsored by a
church, educational institution, civic or social organization or any
other legal activity whether it be conducted on private, commercial or
public property.

   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply when the minor
child is upon an emergency errand directed by his or her parent,
guardian or other person having legal custody of the minor.

   (E)   All parents, guardians or other persons above the age of 18
years having legal custody of any minor child have an affirmative duty
to prevent the minor child from remaining upon, going or being upon any
public street, alley or other public place of the city between the hours
set forth in this section unless accompanied by such parent, guardian or
other person having legal custody of the minor, unless the minor is en
route directly home from the minor's place of employment or an
authorized function sponsored by a church, educational institution,
civic or social organization or any other legal activity whether it be
conducted on private, commercial or public property.

   (F)   Any peace officer having jurisdiction within the city may
detain any such minor for the limited purpose of immediately notifying
the parent, guardian or other person having legal custody of the minor
that they have been detained for violation of the provisions of this
section.

   (G)   Any person under the age of 18 years who is convicted of a
violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable
pursuant to Vol. I, § 1-1-11(A). The court may additionally require such
persons to perform community service or successfully complete counseling
or other education programs as a condition of sentence.

   (H)   Any person over the age of 18 years who is convicted of a
violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable
pursuant to Vol. I, § 1-1-11(A). The court may additionally require such
persons to be placed on probation, perform community service, to
successfully complete counseling or other educational programs, and
order restitution for the costs of prosecution and court costs as a
condition of sentence.

   (I)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:

      (1)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;

      (2)   Involved in an emergency;

      (3)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain
to the police department about the minor's presence;

      (4)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, and the right of assembly; or

      (5)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-11) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-12 NOISE.

   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and it is
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning or operating or in
control of any restaurant, hotel, dance hall, show, store or any place
of public amusement, entertainment or accommodation, to play or permit
to be played any music or musical instrument or instruments whether
played by individuals, orchestra, radio, phonograph, music box or other
mechanical device, in violation of the decibel levels set forth in Table
1 of Apache Junction City Code, Vol. I, Chapter 11: Noise.

   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which
shall not at all times be equipped with a muffler upon the exhaust
thereof in good working order and in constant operation to prevent
excessive or unusual noise, and it is unlawful for any person operating
any motor vehicle to use a cut-out, by-pass or similar muffler
elimination appliance.

   (C)   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation to engage in construction activities
as delineated below, within the corporate limits of the city, during the
prohibited times set forth in division (D) below, when those activities
result in the generation of mechanically or electrically created noise
that can be heard by a person with normal hearing within a residential
building, the windows of which are closed, if the building is located
within 500 feet of the construction site. CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
include, but are not limited to, the following:

      (1)   The making of an excavation, clearing of surface land and
loading or unloading material, equipment or supplies; and

      (2)   The operation of mechanically powered tools, including but
not limited to, a cement mixer, pole driver, power shovel, pneumatic
hammer, derrick or power hoist.

   (D)   The prohibited time periods for construction activity are as
follows:

      (1)   Before 5:00 a.m. Arizona State Time and after 6:30 p.m.
Arizona State Time, Monday through Friday from April 15 to October 15;

      (2)   Before 6:00 a.m. Arizona State Time and after 6:30 p.m.
Arizona State Time, Monday through Friday during the remainder of the
year; and

      (3)   Before 7:00 a.m. Arizona State Time and after 5:00 p.m.
Arizona State Time on Saturdays and Sundays throughout the year and
holidays recognized by the city.

   (E)   The following activities shall be excluded from such
prohibition:

      (1)   Noise generated by work being performed by a resident of a
building or structure, which may continue until 9:00 p.m., but may not
begin earlier than the times set forth in division (D) above; and

      (2)   Noise resulting from an emergency, including but not limited
to, repair of roofs, windows, doors and electrical, plumbing and
mechanical equipment. An EMERGENCY means any situation where work must
be performed in order to prevent serious physical injury to persons or
property.

   (F)   The construction activities noted in division (E)(2) above may
be conducted at prohibited times, if upon written application, a permit
is obtained before the activities commence, from the City Manager or a
designee. The written application must contain information which
demonstrated that the need to engage in the activity is an urgent
necessity, and barring the activity would constitute an unreasonable
hardship on the applicant.

      (1)   If the City Manager or a designee determines that granting
of the permit would impair the public health, safety and welfare, the
permit shall be denied. If determined otherwise, the permit shall be
granted and the construction activity allowed to take place during any
or all of the prohibited hours.

      (2)   In determining whether to grant the permit, the City Manager
or a designee shall balance the hardship to the applicant against the
adverse impact on the health, safety and welfare of the persons most
likely affected, the adverse impact on the property affected and any
other adverse effects of granting the permit.

      (3)   Permits shall be granted by giving written notice to the
applicant with any necessary conditions, including a time limit on the
permitted activity, which in no case shall exceed 30 days. The permit
shall not become effective until all conditions are communicated in
writing, understood and agreed upon by the applicant. Noncompliance with
any condition in the permit shall be grounds for revocation of the
permit. An applicant may appeal the refusal to issue a permit or the
revocation of a permit to the Council, who has the final authority to
grant, refuse or revoke a permit.

   (G)   Violation of any provision of divisions (C) through (F) above
is a misdemeanor and is punishable pursuant to Vol. I, § 1-1-11.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-12) (Am. Ord. 1493, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-13 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.

   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct any public street, alley,
sidewalk or park or other public grounds within the city by committing
any act or doing anything which is injurious to the health or indecent
or offensive to the senses, or to do in or upon any such streets,
alleys, sidewalks, parks or other public grounds, any act or thing which
is an obstruction or interference to the free use of property or with
any business lawfully conducted by anyone, in or upon, or facing or
fronting on any of such streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks or other
public grounds in the city.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-13) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-14 OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW.

   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any tree, hedge,
billboard or other obstructions which prevent persons driving vehicles
on public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a clear view of
traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-14) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-15 OFFENSIVE BUSINESS.

   It is unlawful for any person to establish or maintain any
slaughterhouse or make a practice of slaughtering cattle, hogs, sheep or
any other kind of animal, or establish or maintain any soap factory,
render tallow, or pursue, maintain or carry on any other business or
occupation offensive to the senses or prejudicial to the public health
within the limits of the city.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-15) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-16 OFFENSIVE PREMISES.

   It is unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any premises
belonging to or occupied by him or her, or any cellar, privy, vault,
pool, sewer or private drain therein to become nauseous, foul or
offensive to the senses or prejudicial to the public health or comfort.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-16) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-17 PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENSES.

   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

      PROSTITUTION. The act of performing sexual activity for hire by a
male or female person.

      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Vaginal or anal intercourse, fellatio,
cunnilingus, analingus, masturbation, sodomy or bestiality.

   (B)   It is unlawful to offer, agree, attempt to commit or commit an
act of prostitution.

   (C)   It is unlawful to solicit or hire another person to commit an
act of prostitution.

   (D)   It is unlawful to manifest an intent by word, sign or action to
commit an act of prostitution.

   (E)   It is unlawful for the owner or person having charge or control
of any house, building, apartment, room or premises to rent or lease any
such house, building, apartment, room or premises to any person to be
used as a place of prostitution or to knowingly permit any such house,
building, apartment, room or premises to be used for prostitution or for
immoral purposes or practices. The owner or person having charge or
control of any house, building, apartment, room or premises shall be and
is hereby authorized to summarily remove and eject from such house,
building, apartment, room or premises any tenant, subtenant, lessee or
sublessee or any person who shall commit any act of prostitution or
immoral act or practice or who shall knowingly suffer or permit to be
committed any act of prostitution or any immoral act or practice in or
about such house, building, apartment, room or premises.

   (F)   It is unlawful for any person to use any house, building,
apartment, room or premises for prostitution or for any immoral purposes
or practices.

   (G)   It is unlawful for any person to frequent, loiter in or
continue in any house, building, apartment, room or premises used for
purposes of prostitution or for any immoral purposes or practices.

   (H)   It is unlawful to aid or abet the commission of any of the acts
prohibited by this section.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-17) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-18 SEARCHLIGHTS.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate within the city any
incandescent or arc type searchlight, beacon light or similar lighting
device designed to and capable of projecting a beam of light into the
sky for a distance in excess of ½ mile unless permission is obtained
from the Council.

   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to emergency
searchlights or beacons operated pursuant to public authority.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-18) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-19 SIGNS AND BANNERS.

   It is unlawful for any person to place any banner or sign upon any
street light pole, traffic signal pole or utility pole within the city
without first obtaining authorization from the Council.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-19) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-20 SPITTING.

   It is unlawful for any person to spit upon any of the public
sidewalks or crosswalks in the city or upon any public path, by-way or
highway or in or on any public ground or park in the city, or upon the
floor or interior of any public building in the city.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-20) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-21 WATER FLOW UPON STREETS.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently
permit or cause the escape or flow of water in such quantity as to cause
flooding, or to impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, to create a
hazardous condition to such traffic, or to cause damage to the public
streets of the city.

   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently
permit or cause the escape or flow of irrigation water in such quantity
as to cause flooding, to impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, to
create a hazardous condition to such traffic, or to cause damage to the
public streets of the city through the failure or neglect to properly
operate or maintain any irrigation structure, delivery ditch or waste
ditch in which that person has a vested right or interest or through the
willful or negligent failure of that person to accept irrigation water
after it has been ordered by him or her.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-21) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-22 PUBLIC PLACES OF ENTERTAINMENT.

   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and it is
unlawful as follows:

      (1)   Any female entertaining or performing any dance or in any
play, exhibition, show or other entertainment, or any female serving
food or spirituous liquors as defined by A.R.S. § 4-101, in a
restaurant, nightclub, bar, tavern, taproom, theater or in a private,
fraternal, social, golf or country club, as defined by A.R.S. § 4-101,
or in any public place who appears clothed, costumed, unclothed or
uncostumed in such a manner that the bare female breast or breasts are
not firmly covered below the top of the nipple by a brassiere consisting
of a fully opaque material, is guilty of a misdemeanor;

      (2)   Any person entertaining or performing any dance or in any
play, exhibition, show or other entertainment, or any person serving
food or spirituous liquors as defined by A.R.S. § 4-101, in a
restaurant, nightclub, bar, tavern, taproom, theater or in a private,
fraternal, social, golf or country club, as defined in A.R.S. § 4-101,
or in any public place, who appears clothed, costumed, unclothed or
uncostumed in such a manner that the lower part of his or her torso,
consisting of the private parts or anal cleft or cleavage of the
buttocks, is not covered by a fully opaque material or is so thinly
covered as to appear uncovered, is guilty of a misdemeanor;

      (3)   Any person who employs any female entertaining or performing
any dance or in any play, exhibition, show or other entertainment, or
any female serving food or spirituous liquors as defined by A.R.S. §
4-101, in a restaurant, nightclub, bar, tavern, taproom, theater or in a
private, fraternal, social, golf or country club, as defined by A.R.S. §
4-101, or in any public place, who appears clothed, costumed, unclothed
or uncostumed in such a manner that the bare female breast or breasts
are not firmly covered below the top of the nipple by a brassiere
consisting of a fully opaque material, is guilty of a misdemeanor;

      (4)   Any person who employs any person entertaining or performing
any dance or in any play, exhibition, show or other entertainment, or
any person serving food or spirituous liquors as defined in A.R.S. §
4-101 in a restaurant, nightclub, bar, tavern, taproom, theater or in a
private, fraternal, social, golf or country club, as defined in § 4-101,
or in any public place, who appears clothed, costumed, unclothed or
uncostumed in such a manner that the lower part of his or her torso,
consisting of the private parts or anal cleft or cleavage of the
buttocks, is not covered by a fully opaque material or is so thinly
covered as to appear uncovered, is guilty of a misdemeanor;

      (5)   Any person who aids and abets in any commission of any of
the offenses defined by divisions (A)(1), (2), (3) and (4) above is
guilty of a misdemeanor; and

      (6)   Any person who touches, caresses or fondles the breasts,
buttocks, anus or genitals of another who is entertaining or performing
any dance is guilty of a misdemeanor.

   (B)   The City Clerk shall upon request furnish to the owner or
operator of each cabaret a copy of this article. The owner or operator
shall post the copy of this article in a place conspicuous to the
entertainers, but not necessarily in view of the general public. The
owner or operator of the cabaret shall acquaint his or her entertainers
with the terms of this article.

   (C)   All dances, including go go and strip tease performances, shall
be conducted upon a stage, platform or portion of the floor raised at
least 36 inches above the main portion of the floor.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-22) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-23 MISUSE OF 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBER SYSTEM.

   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

      911. The City of Apache Junction 911 Emergency Telephone Number
System.

      EMERGENCY. Any situation in which a human life or property is in
jeopardy and the prompt summoning of aid is essential.

      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or
unincorporated association.

   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally and willfully
dial the 911 emergency telephone number and falsely report a nonexisting
emergency or to dial the 911 emergency telephone number with the
intention to harass, annoy or otherwise interfere with the intended
operations of the 911 emergency telephone number system.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-23) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-24 PUBLIC URINATION AND DEFECATION.

   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in a public or
private place open to the public view.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-24) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-25 OFFENSIVE USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.

   It is unlawful and a public nuisance to operate or drive any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, mini-bike, trail bike, dune buggy, motorscooter or
other form of motorized transportation on or across any real property
situated in the city, other than on a street or highway, if the
operation of such motor vehicle, motorcycle, mini-bike, trail bike, dune
buggy, motorscooter or other form of motorized transportation causes
dust to become offensive or noxious to the residents of the immediate
neighborhood or causes the residents of the immediate neighborhood to be
subjected to offensive, excessive, unusual or unreasonable noise.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-25) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-26 PARKING NEAR PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES.

   It is unlawful and a public nuisance to park or leave any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, mini-bike, trail bike, dune buggy, motorscooter,
motor home, mobile home, travel trailer, camper, boat or other form of
recreational vehicle or form of transportation having signs, placards or
other forms of written communication placed thereon upon any public or
private property within a distance of 200 feet from the edge of the
roadway, unless the motor vehicle, motorcycle, mini-bike, trail bike,
dune buggy, motorscooter, motor home, mobile home, travel trailer,
camper, boat or other form of recreational vehicle or other form of
transportation is placed in a designated parking area of a residence or
established business.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-26) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-27 SKATEBOARDING ON SPECIFIED MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.

   (A)   For purposes of this section, a SKATEBOARD shall be defined as
a platform mounted on wheels and propelled by human power; skateboarding
shall be defined as the use of a skateboard.

   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to ride or to propel a skateboard
upon specific municipal property to include the grounds and sidewalks of
the city hall complex and the public library/community center.

   (C)   Skateboarding shall only be permitted on those municipal
properties where permitted under city parks regulations.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-27) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-28 STEEL-JAW TRAPS.

   It is unlawful for any person, either willfully and maliciously, or
carelessly and negligently, to use or set a steel jaw trap on any
private or public property located within the city limits.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-28) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-29 TRUANCY.

   (A)   TRUANCY means the unexcused absence of any child age 6 to 16
from any school. The occurrence of 5 unexcused absences of any child age
6 to 16 during a school year shall raise a presumption that the child
was truant and in violation of this section.

   (B)   TRUANT is an unexcused absence for at least 1 class period
during the day.

   (C)   UNEXCUSED ABSENCE is an absence that within 24 hours after it
has occurred has not been authorized by the parents, guardian or any
person having legal custody of any pupil age 6 to 16 enrolled in a
school. It shall be presumed that an absence is an unexcused absence for
purposes of this section upon the failure of the parents, guardian or
any person having legal custody of any pupil age 6 to 16 enrolled in a
school to contact the school and authorize the absence within 24 hours
after the absence.

   (D)   Every parent, guardian or other person having legal custody of
a minor child between the ages of 6 and 16 years shall send the child to
school for the full time that school is in session within the school
district in which the minor resides, except that if a school is operated
on a year-round basis the minor shall attend school sessions which total
not less than 175 days, or the equivalent as approved by the Arizona
Superintendent of Public Instruction during the school year.

   (E)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to fail
to attend school during regularly scheduled school sessions unless
authorized not to attend school by their parent, guardian or other
person having legal custody of the minor. This division shall not apply
to any minor who has been excused by either the Pinal County School
Superintendent or the Maricopa County School Superintendent pursuant to
A.R.S. § 15-802(D)(1) through (7) or as hereafter may be amended.

   (F)   A person is excused from the duty imposed by division (A) above
if any of the requirements of A.R.S. § 15-802(D)(1) through (7), or as
hereafter may be amended, are met.

   (G)   The school attendance officer or school district employees who
have knowledge of a child between the ages of 6 and 16 years and/or a
parent and/or guardian and/or other person having legal custody of a
minor child who is in violation of this section or A.R.S. § 15-802 by
having 5 unexcused absences during a semester or a cumulative of 7 or
more unexcused absences during the school year have a duty to report the
violation to the local law enforcement agency or prosecutor and request
that it investigate and/or prosecute the violation. The local law
enforcement agency or prosecutor shall annually notify the School
Superintendent of each school district within the city of the school
district under this section.

   (H)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter,
shall be guilty of a Class 1 Misdemeanor, and shall be subject to the
penalty and multiple charging provisions set forth in Vol. I, § 1-1-11.

(Prior Code, § 10-1-29) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-30 LEAF BLOWER USE.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a leaf blower in such
a manner that blows landscape debris, dirt or other debris into a public
roadway.

   (B)   No person may operate a leaf blower except on surfaces that
have been stabilized with asphaltic concrete, cement concrete,
hardscape, penetration treatment of bituminous material and seal coat of
bituminous binder and a mineral aggregate, decomposed granite cover,
crushed granite or rock cover, aggregate cover, gravel cover, or grass
or other continuous vegetative cover or any combination of these
stabilizers, except as provided in a permit issued by Pinal or Maricopa
County or the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality Control.

   (C)   Violations of this section shall be punishable by a civil
penalty of not less than $150.

(Ord. 1316, passed 2-19-2008)

§ 10-1-31 OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES ON UNPAVED SURFACES.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motor scooter, mini-bike, trail bike, dune buggy, jeep, all
terrain vehicle, Rhino or other form of transportation propelled by an
internal combustion engine upon the vacant unimproved private property
of another unless the property has been improved or treated in such a
manner as to prevent the release of fugitive dust. It shall be presumed
that all vacant unimproved land owned by any political subdivision of
the State of Arizona or any agency of the United States is closed for
operation of any motor vehicle, motorcycle, motor scooter, mini-bike,
trail bike, dune buggy, jeep, all terrain vehicle, Rhino or other form
of transportation propelled by an internal combustion engine, except
those of the holder of the title to the property, any political
subdivision of the State of Arizona, public service corporations
regulated by the Arizona Corporation Commission, and the state or the
agency of the United States or of a law enforcement agency of this state
or an emergency vehicle, unless designated for such purpose on the
official maps issued by the State of Arizona or an agency of the United
States and posted as open to the public for this purpose. It shall be
the burden of the defendant/respondent in any violation of this section
to rebut the presumption.

   (B)   A person shall have a written license issued by the owner of
the property or the person entitled to immediate possession thereof or
their authorized agent.

   (C)   A person who operates a vehicle in the manner for which a
license is required shall immediately display such license to any law
enforcement officer upon request.

   (D)   Each license shall:

      (1)   Specify the period of time for which permission is granted.

      (2)   Set forth the name of the licensee.

      (3)   Be signed by the licensor.

      (4)   State the licensor's interest in the property.

      (5)   If the licensor is not the owner of the property, state the
owner's name.

   (E)   The city may expend such funds as appropriate to post signage
adjacent to such private and public property indicating this section and
the criminal trespassing statutes contained in A.R.S. Title 13, and the
minimum fines.

(Ord. 1316, passed 2-19-2008) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-1-32 DUST CONTROL FOR HAUL TRUCKS.

   (A)   It is unlawful to drive a haul truck without a tarp or other
suitable cover or closure when traveling on a paved public street
hauling bulk material.

   (B)   It is unlawful to drive a haul truck on a public street without
first cleaning or covering the interior of the cargo compartment after
emptying its contents.

   (C)   Violation of this section shall be punishable as a Class 3
misdemeanor with a minimum fine of $100.

   (D)   For purposes of this section a haul truck is any fully or
partially open-bodied, self-propelled vehicle including any
non-motorized attachments, such as, but not limited to, trailers or
other conveyances that are connected to or propelled by the actual
motorized portion of the vehicle used for transporting materials.

   (E)   For purposes of this section bulk material is any material
including but not limited to earth, rock, silt, sediment, sand, gravel,
soil, fill, aggregate less than 2 inches in length or diameter, dirt,
mud, construction or demolition debris, trash, cinders, pumice, saw
dust, dry concrete, feeds or fertilizers which are capable of producing
fugitive dust.

   (F)   For purposes of this section fugitive dust is the particulate
matter not collected by a capture system, which is entrained in the
ambient air, and is caused from human and/or natural activities, such
as, but not limited to, movement of soil, vehicles, equipment, blasting
and wind. For the purpose of this section, fugitive dust does not
include particulate matter emitted directly from the exhaust of motor
vehicles and other internal combustion engines, from portable brazing,
soldering, or welding equipment and from piledrivers.

(Ord. 1316, passed 2-19-2008)

ARTICLE 10-2: SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS IN VEHICLES

Section

   10-2-1   Definition

   10-2-2   Limitations on use

   10-2-3   Exceptions

   10-2-4   Purpose

   10-2-5   Penalty

§ 10-2-1 DEFINITION.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any device, instrument or system, whether
electrical or mechanical or otherwise, for amplifying sound or for
producing or reproducing sound, including but not limited to any radio
stereo, musical instrument, phonograph or sound or musical recorder or
player.

(Prior Code, § 10-2-1)

§ 10-2-2 LIMITATIONS ON USE.

   Except as authorized by law, no person shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system in or on a vehicle which can
be heard outside the vehicle from 50 or more feet or which annoys or
disturbs the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity;
unless the system is being operated to request assistance of an
emergency nature or to warn of a hazardous situation.

(Prior Code, § 10-2-2) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 10-2-5

§ 10-2-3 EXCEPTIONS.

   In addition to other specific exemptions authorized by Vol. I, §
10-2-2 shall not apply to an authorized emergency vehicle; a vehicle
operated by a gas, electric, communications or water utility company; a
vehicle operated by a governmental entity; or a vehicle used in a parade
or in a political or other special event permitted by the city.

(Prior Code, § 10-2-3)

§ 10-2-4 PURPOSE.

   This article is enacted for the purpose of protecting the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens; to avoid distractions of drivers on
the streets and to avoid traffic congestion; and to prohibit artificial
sound noises from interfering with the lawful rights of other persons
and from constituting a hazard to motorists and pedestrians.

(Prior Code, § 10-2-4)

§ 10-2-5 PENALTY.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article, shall be
guilty of a Class 1 Misdemeanor, and shall be subject to the penalty and
multiple charging provisions set forth in Vol. I, § 1-1-11.

(Prior Code, § 10-2-5)

ARTICLE 10-3: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS BY MINOR

Section

   10-3-1   Definitions

   10-3-2   Unlawful possession of firearm

   10-3-3   Possession of consent form; keeping of records

   10-3-4   Forfeiture of firearms

§ 10-3-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   FIREARM. Any loaded or unloaded pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun or
other weapon which will or is designed to or may readily be converted to
expel a projectile by the action of an explosive, or expanding gases,
except that it does not include an air rifle, air pistol, B.B. gun or
firearm in permanently inoperable condition.

   MINOR. A person who is under the age of 18 years.

   WRITTEN CONSENT. Written approval or permission to possess a firearm,
which is on a form prescribed by the Police Department, signed by the
child's parent or legal guardian, and notarized, and which specifically
describes the firearm as follows:

      (1)   Type;

      (2)   Manufacturer;

      (3)   Caliber; and

      (4)   Serial number.

(Prior Code, § 10-3-1)

§ 10-3-2 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARM.

   It is unlawful for a minor to possess any firearm within the city
limits without the written consent of the minor's parent or legal
guardian.

(Prior Code, § 10-3-2) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-3-3 POSSESSION OF CONSENT FORM; KEEPING OF RECORDS.

   (A)   The original written consent form shall be carried by the minor
any time the minor is in possession of a firearm outside the minor's
residence.

   (B)   The Police Department shall not maintain a file or register of
executed written consent forms.

(Prior Code, § 10-3-3)

§ 10-3-4 FORFEITURE OF FIREARMS.

   Any firearm possessed by a minor in violation of this article may be
subject to forfeiture in the same manner as authorized by A.R.S. Title
13, Chapter 39.

(Prior Code, § 10-3-4)

ARTICLE 10-4: BAD CHECKS

Section

   10-4-1   Issuing of bad checks

   10-4-2   Presumptions relating to issuing a bad check; proof of
presentation; nonpayment; protest; notice

   10-4-3   Jurisdiction; restitution; fees; diversion program

   10-4-4   Deferred prosecution of bad check cases

§ 10-4-1 ISSUING OF BAD CHECKS.

   (A)   A person commits issuing a bad check if he or she issues or
passes a check knowing he or she does not have sufficient funds in or on
deposit with the bank or other drawee for the payment in full of the
check as well as all other checks outstanding at the time of issuance.

   (B)   Any of the following is a defense to prosecution under this
section:

      (1)   The payee or holder knows or has been expressly notified
before the drawing of the check or has reason to believe that the drawer
did not have on deposit or to his or her credit with the drawee
sufficient funds to insure payment on its presentation;

      (2)   The check is postdated and sufficient funds are on deposit
with the drawee on such later date for the payment in full of the check;
and

      (3)   Insufficiency of funds results from an adjustment to the
person's account by the credit institution without notice to the person.

(Prior Code, § 10-4-1)

§ 10-4-2 PRESUMPTIONS RELATING TO ISSUING A BAD CHECK; PROOF OF
PRESENTATION; NONPAYMENT; PROTEST; NOTICE.

   (A)   For purposes of this article, the issuer's knowledge of
insufficient funds may be presumed if either:

      (1)   The issuer had no account with the bank or other drawee at
the time he issued the check; or

      (2)   Payment was refused by the bank or other drawee for lack of
funds upon presentation within 30 days after issue and the issuer failed
to pay the holder the full amount due on the check, together with
reasonable costs, within 12 days after receiving notice of that refusal.

   (B)   Nothing in this section prevents the prosecution from
establishing the requisite intent by direct evidence.

   (C)   Notice may be actual notice or notice in writing, sent by
registered or certified mail return-receipt requested and addressed to
the issuer at his or her address shown on any of the following:

      (1)   The check;

      (2)   The records of the bank or other drawee; or

      (3)   The records of the person to whom the check is issued or
passed.

   (D)   The form of notice shall be substantially as follows:

NOTICE OF DISHONORED CHECK

Date: ___________________________

Name of ISSUER:
_________________________________________________________________

Street Address:
_____________________________________________________________________

City and State:
_____________________________________________________________________

   You are, according to law, hereby notified that a check or instrument
numbered________________, dated _____________________, 19_____, drawn on
______________________________(Bank or other Drawee) in the amount of
$_______________ and payable to
_________________________________________, has been dishonored. Pursuant
to Arizona law, you have twelve days from receipt of this notice to pay
or tender to _______________________________ (Holder) the full amount of
the check or instrument, together with all reasonable costs and protest
fees of $_______, the total amount due being $__________. Unless this
amount is paid in full, within the specified time above, the holder of
the check or instrument may turn over the dishonored check or instrument
and all other available information relating to this incident to the
office of the City Attorney for criminal prosecution.

   (E)   If written notice is given in accordance with this section, it
is presumed that the notice was received no later than 5 days after it
was sent.

(Prior Code, § 10-4-2)

§ 10-4-3 JURISDICTION; RESTITUTION; FEES; DIVERSION PROGRAM.

   (A)   Any violation of Vol. I, § 10-4-2 may be prosecuted by the
office of the City Attorney.

   (B)   A person charged with an offense under this article may make
restitution for the bad checks. Restitution may be made through the
office of the City Attorney if collection and processing were initiated
through that office. Restitution shall include at a minimum the face
amount of the check. The fact that restitution to the party injured is
made and that any costs of filing with the City Attorney are paid is a
mitigating factor in any imposition of punishment for any violation of
this article. On sentencing, the court may require any persons convicted
under this article to make restitution in an amount not to exceed twice
the amount of the dishonored check or $50, whichever is greater,
together with all applicable costs and fees. This is in addition to any
other punishment imposed.

   (C)   The City Attorney may establish a program wherein a notice of
dishonored check is issued and an opportunity is presented to the person
who issued a check drawn on an account with insufficient funds, or where
the issuer had no account with the bank or other drawer at time of
issuance to pay to the holder in full the amount due on the check,
together with reasonable costs and fees. If the issuer of the check pays
the full amount due on the check, together with reasonable costs and
fees as charged by the City Attorney within 12 days from receiving
notice, the City Attorney may elect to not prosecute the violation of
Vol. I, § 10-4-2.

   (D)   The City Attorney may collect a fee if his or her office
collects and processes a check, either through the diversion program as
heretofore provided, or otherwise, if the check is issued or passed in a
manner which makes the issuing or passing a misdemeanor offense under
A.R.S. §§ 13-1802 or 13-1807, or under Vol. I, § 10-4-2.

   (E)   The City Attorney may collect a fee from any person who is a
party to an offense described in this article.

   (F)   The amount of the fee shall not exceed:

      (1)   Twenty-five dollars if the face amount of the check does not
exceed $100;

      (2)   Fifty dollars if the face amount of the check is greater
than $100, but does not exceed $300; and

      (3)   Seventy-five dollars if the face amount of the check is
greater than $300.

(Prior Code, § 10-4-3)

§ 10-4-4 DEFERRED PROSECUTION OF BAD CHECK CASES.

   (A)   The City Attorney may create within his or her office a
deferred prosecution program for bad check cases.

   (B)   The City Attorney may refer a bad check case to the bad check
deferred prosecution program. This article does not limit the power of
the office of the City Attorney to prosecute bad check complaints.

   (C)   Upon receipt of a bad check case, the City Attorney shall
determine if the case is one which is appropriate to be referred to the
bad check prosecution program. To determine whether to refer a check to
the bad check deferred prosecution program, the City Attorney shall
consider the following guidelines:

      (1)   The amount of the bad check;

      (2)   If there is a prior criminal record of the defendant;

      (3)   The number of bad check complaints by the defendant
previously received by the City Attorney;

      (4)   Whether or not there are other bad check complaints
currently pending against the defendant; and

      (5)   The strength of evidence of intent to defraud the victim.

   (D)   On referral of a complaint to the bad check deferred
prosecution program, a notice of the complaint shall be forwarded by
mail to the defendant. The notice shall contain all of the following:

      (1)   The date and amount of the check;

      (2)   The name of the payee;

      (3)   The date before which the defendant must contact the office
of the City Attorney concerning the complaint; and

      (4)   A statement of the penalty for issuance of a bad check.

   (E)   The City Attorney may enter into a written agreement with the
defendant to defer prosecution on the bad check for a period to be
determined by the City Attorney, not to exceed 6 months pending on all
of the following:

      (1)   Completion of the bad check deferred prosecution school
program conducted by the office of the City Attorney, Police Department
or a private entity under contract with the City Attorney;

      (2)   Full restitution being made to the victim of the bad check,
as specified in this article; and

      (3)   Full payment of fees due pursuant to this article.

(Prior Code, § 10-4-4)

ARTICLE 10-5: PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES

Section

   10-5-1   Definitions

   10-5-2   Public property; restrictions

   10-5-3   Other restrictions

   10-5-4   Trees and shrubs in public places

   10-5-5   Birds and animals; protection

   10-5-6   Buildings prohibited

   10-5-7   Camping prohibited

§ 10-5-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   CAMPSITE. Any place where any bedding, sleeping bag or other sleeping
matter is placed, established or maintained, whether or not such place
incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack or other structure, or
any vehicle or part thereof.

   PUBLICLY OWNED PROPERTY. Any property owned by the city or owned by
any county, municipal corporation, district, political subdivision or
agency of the State of Arizona, the State of Arizona, the United States
or any subdivision or agency of the United States.

   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the city or
any employee authorized by the Director of Public Works to take action
under this article.

   TO CAMP. To set up or to remain in or at a campsite.

(Prior Code, § 10-5-1)

§ 10-5-2 PUBLIC PROPERTY; RESTRICTIONS.

   It is unlawful for any person to do any of the following acts upon
any public street, highway, alley, public place or any other publicly
owned property regardless of the purpose for which the property was
dedicated, acquired or purchased, without consent of the Council:

   (A)   Take possession of any said property in any manner;

   (B)   Occupy and remain upon the property;

   (C)   Continue to live upon any of the aforementioned property after
having been notified by any police officer or employee of the city to
vacate the premises;

   (D)   Build any structure of any kind upon any of the property;

   (E)   Fence in or cultivate any of the property. This division shall
not be interpreted to prohibit any person who owns or is lawfully
maintaining any land fronting on a street from maintaining a lawn,
garden, trees or other foliage on the part of the street right-of-way
that is not paved. The land is customarily maintained by the owner of,
or person maintaining, the lot fronting on the land;

   (F)   Dump boxes, trash, litter, paper, refuse matter, tin cans or
garbage on any of the property; and

   (G)   Drive any vehicle of any kind upon or cross any of the
property, except where the streets, highways, alleys, roadways or
driveways have been properly laid out and open to the public.

(Prior Code, § 10-5-2) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-5-3 OTHER RESTRICTIONS.

   No person shall maliciously or willfully deface, injure, destroy,
besmear or bedaub any publicly owned building, sidewalk, street,
pavement, curbing, water or sewer line or other publicly owned property.

(Prior Code, § 10-5-3) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-5-4 TREES AND SHRUBS IN PUBLIC PLACES.

   (A)   No person shall maliciously or willfully cut down, injure or
destroy, in any manner, any tree, shrubbery or flower, planted or
growing in or on any street, park, alley or public grounds. This section
shall not be interpreted to prohibit any person who owns or is lawfully
maintaining any land fronting on a street from maintaining a lawn,
garden, trees or other foliage on the part of the street right-of-way
that is not paved. The land is customarily maintained by the owner of,
or person maintaining, the lot fronting on the land.

   (B)   No person shall cut down any tree in any street right-of-way or
parkway without permission of the Public Works Director.

(Prior Code, § 10-5-4) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-5-5 BIRDS AND ANIMALS; PROTECTION.

   No person shall kill, wound, maim, injure or harm in any manner any
bird or animal; or throw, fire or shoot any gun, pistol or other deadly
weapon, or any stone, arrow or other missile at a bird or animal; or
break, tear down or destroy any bird's nest or eggs or other contents of
their nests on any publicly owned property.

(Prior Code, § 10-5-5) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-5-6 BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain, erect or permit the
erection of any building, hut, hotel, shanty, tent or other structure
under his or her control on any street, sidewalk, alley, right-of-way or
other publicly owned property.

   (B)   This section shall not prohibit the erection or installation of
any tent or temporary structure where authorized by a permit issued by
the city.

(Prior Code, § 10-5-6) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-5-7 CAMPING PROHIBITED.

   It is unlawful for any person to camp in or upon any city sidewalk,
street, alley, lane, park, public right-of-way or other place to which
the general public has access, or under an bridge way or viaduct, unless
otherwise specifically authorized by Vol. I or by declaration by the
mayor in emergency circumstances. This shall not be deemed to prohibit
camping at designated campsites. No person shall be convicted of
violating this section unless that person shall continue to camp after
receiving a warning to leave and given a reasonable period of time, not
to exceed 24 hours, to leave. The warning shall be given by a peace
officer or by any city employee or officer.

(Prior Code, § 10-5-7) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

ARTICLE 10-6: GRAFFITI

Section

   10-6-1   Definitions

   10-6-2   Purpose and intent

   10-6-3   Graffiti prohibited

   10-6-4   Possession of graffiti implements prohibited

   10-6-5   Furnishing graffiti implements or paraphernalia

   10-6-6   Notice to remove

   10-6-7   Service of notice

   10-6-8   Appeal to City Manager

   10-6-9   Removal by city

   10-6-10   Lien for removal

§ 10-6-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   AEROSOL PAINTS CONTAINER. Any aerosol container that is adapted or
made for the purpose of spraying paint.

   BROAD TIP MARKER. Any marker or similar implement that has a writing
surface that is ½ of an inch or greater and containing anything other
then a solution that can be removed with water after the solution dries.

   GRAFFITI. Any drawing or inscribing a message, slogan, sign or symbol
or mark of any type that is made on any public or private building,
structure or surface, and that is made without the permission of the
owner.

   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT. An aerosol paint container, broad tip marker,
paint stick, graffiti stick or bleeder.

   PAINT STICK, GRAFFITI STICK OR BLEEDER. Any implement containing
paint, wax, epoxy or other similar substance.

   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. An owner, occupant, lessor, lessee, manager,
licensee or other person having the right to control the property.

(Prior Code, § 10-6-1)

§ 10-6-2 PURPOSE AND INTENT.

   It is the purpose and intent of this article to help prevent the
spread of graffiti and to establish a program for its removal from
public and private property. The spread of graffiti on public and
private buildings, walls, signs and other structures or places or other
surfaces causes blight within the city, resulting in a genuine threat to
life, economic losses to businesses in terms of physical property,
profits and goodwill, and the general deterioration of property and
business values, for adjacent and surrounding properties. Not only is
graffiti a property crime, but it is also a social crime on the quality
of life and freedom from intimidation that citizens desire within their
neighborhoods.

(Prior Code, § 10-6-2) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-6-3 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to paint, spray, chalk, etch or
otherwise apply graffiti on public or privately owned sidewalks, walls,
buildings, fences, signs and other structures or surfaces.

   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning or otherwise in control of
any real property within the city to permit or allow any graffiti to be
placed upon or to remain on any permanent structure located on property
when the graffiti is visible from the street or from the public or
private property.

(Prior Code, § 10-6-3) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-6-4 POSSESSION OF GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS PROHIBITED.

   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly possess any graffiti
implement with the intent to use the implement for the purpose of
committing criminal damage to any of the following places or things,
including but not limited to public or privately owned buildings, signs,
walls, permanent structures, places or other surfaces within the city.

(Prior Code, § 10-6-4) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-6-5 FURNISHING GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS OR PARAPHERNALIA.

   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, other than a parent or legal
guardian, to sell, exchange, give, loan, or otherwise furnish, or cause
or permit to be exchanged, given, lent or otherwise furnished any
graffiti implement to any person under the age of 18.

   (B)   Evidence that a person, his or her employee, or agent demanded
and was shown acceptable evidence of majority and acted upon such
evidence in a transaction or sale shall be a defense to any prosecution
under this section. Acceptable evidence of majority shall include, but
is not limited to, drivers license, state-issued identification or
military identification.

   (C)   This section does not apply to the transfer of graffiti
implements from parents to child, guardian to ward, employer to
employee, teacher to student, or any other similar relationship when the
transfer is for a lawful purpose.

(Prior Code, § 10-6-5) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 10-6-6 NOTICE TO REMOVE.

   (A)   If a person owning any property fails to remove graffiti
located on property owned by such person, notice shall be given by the
city to remove the graffiti within 15 calendar days from the date the
notice was served pursuant to Vol. I, § 10-6-7, as set forth below.

   (B)   The notice shall contain:

      (1)   An estimate of the cost of removal by the city; and

      (2)   A statement explaining:

         (a)   That unless the person owning the property complies
within 15 calendar days from the date the written notice is served, that
the city will, at the expense of the person owning the property, remove
the graffiti at a cost not to exceed the estimate given in the notice;
and

         (b)   The person may appeal in writing to the Manager or
designee ("City Manager") within 15 calendar days from the date the
notice is served.

(Prior Code, § 10-6-6)

§ 10-6-7 SERVICE OF NOTICE.

   Notice shall be personally served on the owner or person controlling
such property by a police officer of the city in the manner provided in
Rule 4(d) of the Arizona Rules of Civil Procedure, or sent to the owner
of the property at the last known address by certified or registered
first class U.S. mail or at the address to which the tax bill for the
property was last mailed. If the owner does not reside on the property,
a duplicate notice shall also be sent by certified or registered first
class U.S. mail at the owner's last known address.

(Prior Code, § 10-6-7)

§ 10-6-8 APPEAL TO CITY MANAGER.

   The owner may within 15 calendar days from the date the notice is
served appeal the notice to remove the graffiti to the City Manager, by
filing a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk. The City Manager
may extend the deadline or may reduce the estimated cost of abatement.
The decision of the City Manager shall be final. During the appellate
period, enforcement of these provisions shall be stayed.

(Prior Code, § 10-6-8)

§ 10-6-9 REMOVAL BY CITY.

   (A)   When any such person to whom notice, as provided in this
article, has been given, and on or before the date of compliance on the
notice, or within such further time as may have been granted by the City
Manager on appeal, fails to remove from the property any or all
graffiti, the City Manager is authorized and directed to cause the same
to be removed at the expense of the owner.

   (B)   Upon completion of the work, the City Manager shall prepare a
verified statement, accounting for:

      (1)   The actual cost of the removal or abatement; and

      (2)   The date the work was completed and the street address and
legal description of the property on which the work was completed.

   (C)   The notice shall include 5% for additional inspection and other
incidental costs in connection therewith.

   (D)   The City Manager shall serve a duplicate copy of the verified
statement upon the person owning the property in the manner prescribed
in Vol. I, § 10-6-7.

   (E)   The owner of the property shall have thirty days from the date
of service to appeal in writing to the Council from the amount of the
assessment as contained in the verified statement.

   (F)   If an appeal is not filed with the City Clerk within a
30-calendar day period, then the amount of the assessment as determined
by the City Manager shall become final.

   (G)   If an appeal is taken, the Council shall, at its next regular
meeting, or as soon as practicable, hear and determine the assessment
appeal and may affirm the amount of the assessment, modify the amount
thereof, or determine that no assessment at all shall be made. The
decision of the Council shall be final.

(Prior Code, § 10-6-9)

§ 10-6-10 LIEN FOR REMOVAL.

   (A)   If no appeal is taken from the amount of the assessment, or if
an appeal is taken and the Council has affirmed or modified the amount
of the assessment, the original assessment or the assessment as so
modified shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder of Pinal
or Maricopa County, Arizona, depending on which county the affected
property is located, and from the date of its recording, shall be a lien
on the lot or tract of land until paid.

   (B)   The liens shall be subject and inferior to the lien for general
taxes and to all prior recorded mortgages and encumbrances of record.

   (C)   A sale of the property to satisfy a lien obtained under the
provisions of this article shall be made upon judgment of foreclosure or
order of sale.

   (D)   The city shall have the right to bring an action to enforce the
lien in the Superior Court of Pinal or Maricopa County at any time after
the recording of the assessment, but failure to enforce the lien by such
action shall not affect its validity.

   (E)   The recorded assessment shall be prima facie evidence of the
truth of all matters recited therein, and of the regularity of all
proceedings prior to the recording thereof.

   (F)   A prior assessment for the purposes provided in this section
shall not be a bar to a subsequent assessment for such purposes, and any
number of liens on the same lot or tract of land may be enforced in the
same action.

(Prior Code, § 10-6-10)

ARTICLE 10-7: MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS

Section

   10-7-1   Purpose and intent

   10-7-2   Definitions

   10-7-3   Prohibited operation locations

   10-7-4   General operating restrictions

   10-7-5   Responsibility of parents, guardians and custodians

   10-7-6   Required safety equipment

   10-7-7   Penalty

§ 10-7-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.

   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of this article to regulate the
safest possible use of motorized skateboards.

   (B)   The unregulated use of motorized skateboards threatens the
health and welfare of not only the riders, but also the general public.

   (C)   The impact of accidents involving motorized skateboards is
widespread because of the nature of their construction, the relatively
young age of operators and failure of many operators to use any type of
safety equipment.

   (D)   Regulating motorized skateboards is of utmost importance to
enhance the safety of the entire community.

(Prior Code, § 10-7-1)

§ 10-7-2 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   MOTORIZED SKATEBOARD. A self-propelled device which has an affixed
motor connected to a deck upon which a person may ride and has at least
2 wheels in contact with the ground and which is not otherwise defined
in A.R.S. Title 28, as amended, as a "motor vehicle," "motorcycle,"
"motor-driven cycle" or "motorized wheelchair."

   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
motorized skateboard upon a public roadway, sidewalk, right-of-way,
park, bicycle path or any other public property used for the operation
of motor vehicles.

   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title to a motorized skateboard
or any person who is a lessee, conditional vendee or mortgagor of a
motorized skateboard with a right to immediate possession.

   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. An owner, occupant, lessor, lessee, manager,
licensee or other person having the right to control such property.

   RIGHT-OF-WAY. All the property used as a public thoroughfare and
lying between the exterior boundary lines of any area granted to or
received by the city by grant, gift, easement, deed, dedication or
operation of law for street, alley, walkway or utility purposes.

   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines or the
lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for
use by pedestrians.

(Prior Code, § 10-7-2)

§ 10-7-3 PROHIBITED OPERATION LOCATIONS.

   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard in the following
locations:

   (A)   On any public sidewalk except when crossing a sidewalk to gain
access to any public or private road or driveway;

   (B)   On any city property except on public roadways where the posted
speed limit is 30 mph or less;

   (C)   On any public property that has been posted as an area in which
the operation of motorized skateboards is prohibited;

   (D)   On any private property without the written permission of the
owner or the owner's authorized agent, nor on public property that is
not held open to the public for vehicular use; or

   (E)   On any city right-of-way, including city streets, roadways and
alleyways, except during daylight hours and in no event before 7:00 a.m.
Mountain Standard Time or after 8:00 p.m. Mountain Standard Time.

(Prior Code, § 10-7-3) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 10-7-7

§ 10-7-4 GENERAL OPERATING RESTRICTIONS.

   (A)   No person under the age of 12 shall operate a motorized
skateboard.

   (B)   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the circumstances or in
excess of the posted speed limit.

   (C)   In order to cross a sidewalk, bicycle path, bicycle lane or
multi-use path, a person operating a motorized skateboard shall yield
the right-of-way to all other users.

   (D)   No person operating a motorized skateboard shall allow
passengers to ride on the motorized skateboard when the motorized
skateboard is in operation or in motion.

   (E)   No person operating or riding upon a motorized skateboard shall
attach themselves or the motorized skateboard in any manner to any other
vehicle.

   (F)   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard while carrying
any package, bundle or article if carrying the object prevents the
operator from keeping both hands upon the steering mechanism at all
times.

   (G)   No person operating a motorized skateboard shall: transport
extra fuel in a separate container on the motorized skateboard; or
attach a separate container with fuel to the operator's person; or alter
the fuel reservoir on the motorized skateboard from the original
manufacturer's design.

   (H)   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard in a manner
causing excessive, unnecessary or offensive noise that disturbs the
peace and quiet of any neighborhood or that would annoy a reasonable
person.

   (I)   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard that has been
structurally altered from the original manufacturer's design.

(Prior Code, § 10-7-4) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 10-7-7

§ 10-7-5 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS, GUARDIANS AND CUSTODIANS.

   The parent, guardian or legal custodian of any minor or ward shall
not authorize or knowingly permit a minor or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this article.

(Prior Code, § 10-7-5)

§ 10-7-6 REQUIRED SAFETY EQUIPMENT.

   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard at any time when
there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and
vehicles at a distance of 500 feet ahead.

   (B)   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard unless the
motorized skateboard is equipped with a brake that enables the operator
to make a braked wheel skid on pavement.

   (C)   A person under the age of 18 years operating a motorized
skateboard on a roadway shall at all times wear a protective helmet on
his or her head in an appropriate and safely secured manner.

   (D)   No person shall operate a motorized skateboard without wearing
footwear. The footwear must have a sole and completely cover the feet
and toes.

   (E)   When operating a motorized skateboard, a person shall wear
protective glasses or goggles or a transparent face shield of a type
approved for motorcycle or motor-driven cycle use.

(Prior Code, § 10-7-6) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 10-7-7

§ 10-7-7 PENALTY.

   Violations of any of the sections of this article concerning
motorized skateboards are designated as civil traffic violations and are
subject to the same monetary penalties as civil traffic violations.

(Prior Code, § 10-7-7)

CHAPTER 11: NOISE

      Article

         11-1.   NOISE

ARTICLE 11-1: NOISE

Section

   11-1-1   Applicability

   11-1-2   Authority and purpose

   11-1-3   Excessive noise violation

   11-1-4   Definitions

   11-1-5   Sound level measurement criteria

   11-1-6   Acts or conditions declared as excessive noises

   11-1-7   Investigation

   11-1-8   Exemptions

   11-1-9   Penalty

§ 11-1-1 APPLICABILITY.

   This chapter shall apply to areas within the incorporated city
limits.

(Ord. 1492, passed 8-18-2020)

§ 11-1-2 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.

   This chapter is hereby adopted under the authority granted to the
council in A.R.S. §§ 9-240A(13) and 9-276A(16) for the purpose of
regulating excessive noises.

   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to prohibit any
noise which exceeds the decibel levels set out in this chapter. Above
these levels, such noises are unreasonable, excessive and detrimental to
the health and welfare of the residents of the city, and it is in the
best interest of the residents of the city that such excessive noises be
systematically eliminated.

(Ord. 1492, passed 8-18-2020)

§ 11-1-3 EXCESSIVE NOISE VIOLATION.

   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person
to knowingly and/or intentionally make, continue, or cause to be made or
continue any noise exceeding the decibel limits referenced in this
chapter.

(Ord. 1492, passed 8-18-2020)

§ 11-1-4 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   A-WEIGHTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The sound pressure level as measured
with a sound level meter using the A-weighting network (the standard
notation is “dB(A)” or “dBA”).

   COMMERCIAL PROPERTY. Any property occupied by a business, store or
shop and zoned for such purpose.

   DECIBEL (“dB”). A unit for measuring the volume of a sound equal to
20 times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of
the sound measured to the reference pressure, which is 20 micropascals
(20 micronewtons per square meter).

   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Police, Public Safety and Public
Works Departments and legally authorized vehicles of state departments
or any political subdivisions thereof and vehicles of public service
corporations, fire, medical, water and sewer districts.

   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed to prevent or alleviate physical
trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency which has
or may result in a disruption of service and which is necessary to
protect the health, safety and welfare of persons or property.

   EXCESSIVE NOISE. Any sound measured according to the criteria set
forth in this chapter which exceeds the levels reflected in the dB
Tables.

   INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY. Any property occupied by land uses whose primary
operation involves manufacturing, assembling, processing or otherwise
treating raw materials, semi-finished products, or finished products for
packaging and distribution to either wholesale or retail markets and
zoned for such purpose.

   LEGAL HOLIDAY. Those holidays so designated by the city in its
personnel rules.

   LEQ (EQUIVALENT SOUND LEVEL). The constant level that over a given
period transmits to the receiver the same amount of acoustic energy as
the actual time-elapsed sound.

   NOISE. See SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL.

   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any property, the dominant use of which is
non-transient occupancy of residential dwelling units and zoned for such
purpose.

   SITE-SPECIFIC SOURCE OF SOUND. A source of sound which originates
from a property even though the specific source of the sound generation
may be mobile.

   SOUND. Temporal and spatial oscillation in pressure, particle
displacement, particle velocity, or other physical parameter in a medium
with internal forces that causes progressively alternative compression
and rare fraction of that medium and which propagates at finite speed to
distant points and can evoke an auditory sensation.

   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument which includes a microphone,
amplifier, root mean square (“RMS”) detector, integrator or time
averager, output meter, and weighting networks used to measure sound
pressure levels.

   SOUND PRESSURE. The instantaneous difference between the actual
pressure and the average or barometric pressure at a given point in
space as produced by sound energy.

   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithm to the base ten of
the ratio of RMS sound pressure to the reference pressure of 20
micropascals (20 x 10-N/m). The SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL is denoted “Lp” or
“SPL” and is expressed in decibels.

   STREET. A way, existing or proposed, for vehicular traffic whether
designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway,
freeway, road, roadway, boulevard, avenue, lane, alley, easement, place,
or however otherwise designated.

   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street, existing or proposed, collecting traffic
from local streets, and connecting the same with a major street, or
another collector street.

   STREET, LOCAL OR MINOR. A street, existing or proposed, exclusively
or primarily providing access and utilities to abutting properties.

   STREET, MAJOR. Such major street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway or
boulevard and all section lines so designated on the county
comprehensive plan.

(Ord. 1492, passed 8-18-2020)

§ 11-1-5 SOUND LEVEL MEASUREMENT CRITERIA.

   For the purpose of enforcement of the provisions of this chapter,
noise levels shall be measured on the A-weighted scale with a sound
level meter satisfying at least the applicable requirement for Type 2
sound level meters as defined in American National Standard S1.4-1971 or
the most recent revisions thereof. Prior to measurement, the meter shall
be set for slow response speed, except that for rapidly varying sound
levels, fast response speed may be used. Prior to measurement, the meter
shall be calibrated according to the manufacturer's specifications.

(Ord. 1492, passed 8-18-2020)

§ 11-1-6 ACTS OR CONDITIONS DECLARED AS EXCESSIVE NOISES.

   The following enumerated acts or conditions are subject to the
decibel levels set forth in this chapter:

   (A)   Land use noise.

      (1)   Classification of use districts (residential, commercial,
industrial). Zoning district classifications shall be as set out in the
city zoning ordinance and shall, for purposes of this section, be
distinguishable as residential, commercial and industrial land use
classifications, within which sound levels of Table 1 below shall be
locally measurable and applied by the use of LEQ levels as defined in
this chapter and measured in accordance with the methods set forth in
this chapter for purposes of evaluating an alleged violation of this
chapter.

      (2)   Violations. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this
section for any person to operate or to permit to be operated any
site-specific source of noise which when measured at 20 feet from the
complaining party's building footprint:

         (a)   Creates a sound level in excess of its ambient LEQ limit,
indicated in Table 1 below:

TABLE 1 SOUND LEVELS FOR LAND USE DISTRICTS

 

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  ZONING DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION                                                                                         LEQ LIMITS, dBA

  (Residential) RS-20, RS-20M, RS-10, RS-10M, RS-7, RS-7M, RS-5, RM-1, RM-2, RM-3, MHP, RVP, MPC, RS-GR, RS-54, RS-54M   65 dBA (7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.);
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         60 dBA (10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.)

  (Commercial or Business) B-l, B-2, B-3                                                                                 65 dBA (7:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m.);
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         60 dBA (10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.)

  (Industrial) B-4, B-5                                                                                                  70 dBA (7:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m.);
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         65 dBA (10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.)
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------

 

            The LEQ limits specified above in Table 1 are LEQ for a
2-minute time interval. Partial LEQ levels may be obtained as necessary
to ensure an accurate indication of the representative sound environment
for the site.

         (b)   Sound projected from property within 1 zoning district
into property within another zoning district of a lesser sound level
limit shall not exceed such lesser sound level limit.

(Ord. 1492, passed 8-18-2020)

§ 11-1-7 INVESTIGATION.

   (A)   Police officers are authorized to investigate noise complaints
and shall do so using only decibel measurements pursuant to this chapter
and not by subjective data (individual opinion or experience), but
rather objective data (impartial decibel levels set forth in Table 1).
The investigating police officer, after receiving a complaint, shall
take a decibel measurement upon arrival 20 feet from the complaining
party's building footprint.

      (1)   If the maximum decibel level is higher than allowed in this
chapter, the police officer shall immediately contact the owner or
manager of the offending property and verbally warn them to reduce the
noise. The complainant will be informed that a warning has been issued.
Additional warnings shall be provided by the officer to the owner or
manager of the offending property if they have not had violations within
60 calendar days from the date of the last warning. All warnings will be
documented in the Police Department's computer aided dispatch ("CAD")
system or by Department report.

      (2)   If the maximum decibel levels in Table 1 are subsequently
exceeded within 60 calendar days from the date of the last warning that
was given the police officer shall issue a citation to the owner or
manager of the offending property with a date to appear in court. If the
owner or manager of the offending property cannot be located to be
cited, is evading personal service of the citation, or refuses to sign
the citation, the police officer shall document the reason and shall
submit the case to the prosecutor who shall determine whether the
submitted evidence from the police officer supports the filing of a long
form complaint with the court.

      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to misrepresent or give
any false or inaccurate information or in any way attempt to deceive a
police officer in order to avoid compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.

   (B)   A police officer shall advise any person violating this section
to abate the violation. It is unlawful for any person to fail to comply
with an order of a police officer regarding a noise violation.

   (C)   The business, enterprise, person or persons creating the noise,
involved in the activity or operating the equipment which creates the
noise as well as the business, enterprise, owner, lessee, tenant,
occupant or other possessor of the property on which the noise is
created or the activity or operation creating the noise is located,
shall be responsible or liable for any violation of this chapter.

(Ord. 1492, passed 8-18-2020)

§ 11-1-8 EXEMPTIONS.

   (A)   General. The sound levels set forth in this chapter shall not
apply to the following noise sources:

      (1)   Heating and cooling equipment when it is functioning in
accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and is in proper
operating condition;

      (2)   Landscape maintenance equipment, when it is functioning in
accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and with all mufflers
and noise-reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition;

      (3)   Non-amplified crowd activities such as athletic, musical or
cultural events planned by schools, governmental or organized sports;

      (4)   Safety signals, warning devices and emergency pressure
relief valves;

      (5)   Any authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an
emergency call or acting in time of emergency;

      (6)   Emergency work necessary to restore property to a safe
condition following a fire, accident or natural disaster; to restore
public utilities; or to protect persons or property from an imminent
danger;

      (7)   Religious institution's percussion instruments;

      (8)   Power plant equipment during normal operation;

      (9)   Any city vehicle, equipment or facility while being operated
for official use;

      (10)   Any aircraft operated in conformity with, or pursuant to,
federal law, federal air regulations or air traffic control instructions
issued pursuant to or within duly adopted federal air regulations,
together with any noise created by aircraft operated under, or pursuant
to, declaration of an emergency under federal air regulations;

      (11)   Any special event as approved by the Council including but
not limited to parades, concerts, festivals, fairs or similar
activities;

      (12)   Legal fireworks as regulated under A.R.S. Title 36, §§
36-1601 through 36-1610, as amended.

   (B)   Apache Junction City Code specific provisions. Unless otherwise
noted, this chapter does not apply to the following Apache Junction City
Code (“AJCC”) provisions:

      (1)   AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 6: Animals, Article 6-1: Rules and
Regulations, § 6-1-1: Definitions.

      (2)   AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 6: Animals. Article 6-1: Rules and
Regulations, § 6-1-3: Noises.

      (3)   AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 6: Animals. Article 6-1: Rules and
Regulations. § 6-1-7: Commercial Dog Kennel Permits.

      (4)   AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 6: Animals, Article 6-1: Rules and
Regulations. § 6-1-8: Personal Dog Kennel Permits.

      (5)   AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 6: Animals, Article 6-9: Violations. §
6-9-2: Criminal Filings and Penalties.

      (6)   AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 10: Offenses. Article 10-1: Offenses;
General, § 10-1-12 (B): Noise (mufflers).

      (7)   Construction activity with start and stop times indicated in
Table 2 below and more fully described in AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 10:
Offenses. Article 10-1: Offenses: General §§ 10-1-12(C) through (F).

   TABLE 2 CONSTRUCTION START AND STOP TIMES

 

  ------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  TYPE OF WORK                                            DATES AND TIMES

  Concrete Work                                           April 15 - October 15 from 5:00 am - 7:00pm
                                                          
                                                          October 16 - April 14 from 6:00 am - 6:30 pm
                                                          
                                                          Weekends/Holidays from 7:00 am - 5:00 pm

  Other Type of Construction (in residential zones)       April 15 - October 15 from 5:00 am - 6:30 pm
                                                          
                                                          October 16 - April 14 from 6:00 am - 6:30 pm
                                                          
                                                          Weekends/Holidays from 7:00 am - 5:00 pm
                                                          
                                                          (In a residential building with windows closed within 500 feet of construction site)

  Other Type of Construction (in non-residential zones)   April 15 - October 15 from 5:00 am - 6:30 pm
                                                          
                                                          October 16-April 14 from 6:00 am-6:30 pm
                                                          
                                                          Weekends/Holidays from 7:00 am - 5:00 pm
                                                          
                                                          (In a residential building with windows closed within 500 feet of construction site)
  ------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

         The times noted above may be varied by authorized permit, see
AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 10: Offenses, Article 10-1: Offenses; General §§
10-1-12(C) through (F).

      (8)   AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 10: Offenses, Article 10-1: Offenses:
General. § 10-1-25: Offensive Use of a Motor Vehicle.

      (9)   AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 10: Offenses. Article 10-2: Sound
Amplification Systems in Vehicles.

      (10)   AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 10: Offenses. Article 10-7: Motorized
Skateboards. § 10-7-4: General Operating Restrictions.

      (11)   AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 12: Traffic. Article 12-2: Traffic
Control. § 12-2-15: Unnecessary Vehicle Noise (squealing tires).

      (12)   AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 13: Public Works. Article 13-4: Small
Wireless Facilities Located in Public Rights-of-Way, Appendix B Wireless
Facilities Standard Terms and Conditions.

      (13)   AJCC, Vol. I, Ch. 13: Public Works. Article 13-4: Small
Wireless Facilities Located in Public Rights-of-Way, § 13-4-1: Purpose.

      (14)   AJCC, Vol. II, Ch. 1: Zoning Ordinance. Article 1-6:
Supplemental Regulations. § 1-6-6: Home Based Occupations.

      (15)   AJCC, Vol. II, Ch. 1: Zoning Ordinance, Article 1-6:
Supplemental Regulations, § 1-6-7: Equestrian Activities and Uses.

      (16)   AJCC, Vol. II, Ch. 1: Zoning Ordinance, Article 1-6:
Supplemental Regulations, § 1-6-14: Airports and Helipads.

      (17)   AJCC, Vol. II, Ch. 1: Zoning Ordinance. Article 1-6:
Supplemental Regulations, § 1-6-16: Alternative Energy Structures and
Equipment.

      (18)   AJCC, Vol. II, Ch. 1: Zoning Ordinance, Article 1-6:
Supplemental Regulations, § 1-6-23(B)(2)(f): Temporary Uses and
Structures.

      (19)   AJCC, Vol. II, Ch. 1: Zoning Ordinance. Article 1-16:
Administration. § 1-16-12: Conditional Use Permits. Administrative Use
Permits and Building Permits.

      (20)   AJCC, Vol. II, Ch. 8: Communications, Article 8-1: Wireless
Communications Facilities. § 8-l-5(D): General Site Development
Regulations.

(Ord. 1492, passed 8-18-2020)

§ 11-1-9 PENALTY.

   (A)   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
and is declared to be a public nuisance and any person who violates any
of the provisions of this chapter is subject to being summoned into
court by a citation or long form complaint for the following:

      (1)   First offense. Civil charge, civil penalty of $350;

      (2)   Second offense within a 24 consecutive month period after
first offense. Civil charge, civil penalty of $600;

      (3)   Third offense within a 24 consecutive month period after
first offense, as well as all subsequent offenses thereafter. Class 1
misdemeanor criminal charge, criminal fine of $1,000, and other
allowable criminal misdemeanor penalties.

   (B)   The responsible party shall receive the progressively higher
dollar amount penalties noted above upon a finding of responsibility for
any violation. Such dollar amounts are not subject to judicial
reduction. Each day a violation continues or exists shall be considered
a separate offense.

(Ord. 1492, passed 8-18-2020)

CHAPTER 12: TRAFFIC

      Article

         12-1.   ADMINISTRATION

         12-2.   TRAFFIC CONTROL

         12-3.   PARKING

         12-4.   VEHICLE WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC STREETS

         12-5.   PARKING VIOLATIONS, LIABILITY AND ENFORCEMENT

ARTICLE 12-1: ADMINISTRATION

Section

   12-1-1   Duty of Police Department

   12-1-2   Records of traffic violations

   12-1-3   Traffic accident investigations

   12-1-4   Traffic accident studies

   12-1-5   Traffic accident reports

§ 12-1-1 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.

   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department under the
direction of the Public Safety Director (hereinafter the “Chief of
Police”) to provide for the enforcement of the street traffic
regulations of the city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic in the city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to assist in developing ways and means to
improve traffic conditions and to carry out all duties specially imposed
upon the Police Department by this article.

   (B)   Any peace officer or duly authorized agent of the city may stop
and detain a person as is reasonably necessary to investigate an actual
or suspected violation of any chapter of this code, and to serve a copy
of the traffic complaint for any alleged civil or criminal violation of
this article.

(Prior Code, § 12-1-1) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-1-2 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.

   (A)   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of
the traffic laws of the city or of the state vehicle laws of which any
person has been charged consistent with federal and state law.

   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices shall be
serially numbered. For each month and year a written record shall be
kept available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms.

   (C)   All records and reports shall be open to the public, subject to
privacy and confidential considerations set forth in federal and state
statutes as interpreted under common law.

(Prior Code, § 12-1-2) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-1-3 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS.

   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to investigate traffic
accidents and to arrest and assist in the prosecution of those persons
charged with violations of law causing or contributing to such
accidents.

(Prior Code, § 12-1-3) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-1-4 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES.

   Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous,
the City Engineer or Traffic Engineer shall conduct studies of the
accidents and determine remedial measures.

(Prior Code, § 12-1-4) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-1-5 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.

   (A)   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable system of
filing traffic accident reports. Accident reports shall be filed by case
number.

   (B)   The Police Department shall receive and properly file all
accident reports made to it under applicable law.

(Prior Code, § 12-1-5) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

ARTICLE 12-2: TRAFFIC CONTROL

Section

   12-2-1   Directing traffic

   12-2-2   Obedience to traffic regulations

   12-2-3   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices
restricted

   12-2-4   Traffic control devices

   12-2-5   Authority to designate crosswalks, establish safety zones
and mark traffic lanes

   12-2-6   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers

   12-2-7   Authority to place and obedience to restricted turn signs

   12-2-8   Limitations on turning around

   12-2-9   One-way streets and alleys

   12-2-10   Regulation of traffic at intersections

   12-2-11   Drivers to obey signs

   12-2-12   Processions

   12-2-13   Speed in alleys

   12-2-14   Vehicle door as traffic obstruction

   12-2-15   Unnecessary vehicle noise

§ 12-2-1 DIRECTING TRAFFIC.

   Officers and/or auxiliary patrol of the Police Department are hereby
authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-1) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-2-2 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.

   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required by this article. No person shall willfully fail or refuse to
comply with any lawful order or direction of a police officer.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-2) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-2-3 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.

   No person upon roller skates or riding any coaster, toy vehicle or
similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street
on a crosswalk and, when crossing, the person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to
pedestrians.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-3) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-2-4 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.

   (A)   The Public Works Department, at the direction of the City
Engineer or Traffic Engineer, shall place and maintain traffic control
devices, signs and signals when, and as required, under the traffic
regulations of the city, (and the most current version of the Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices), to make effective the provisions of
the regulations, and may place and maintain such additional traffic
control devices as may be deemed necessary to regulate, guide or warn
traffic under the traffic laws of the city or under state law. In public
rights-of-way or public easements, the Police Department will provide
enforcement services of these devices.

   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any
official traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance
with the traffic regulations of the city unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted in this article or by
state law.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-4) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-2-5 AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS, ESTABLISH SAFETY ZONES AND
MARK TRAFFIC LANES.

   The City Engineer or Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to:

   (A)   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines
upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where there
is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as may be deemed necessary;

   (B)   Establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as may be deemed necessary for the protection of pedestrians; and

   (C)   Mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as
may be deemed advisable consistent with the traffic laws of the city.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-5) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-2-6 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO TURNING MARKERS.

   (A)   The City Engineer or Traffic Engineer is authorized to place
markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating
the course to be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections, and
such course to be traveled as so indicated may conform to or be other
than as prescribed by law.

   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are
placed within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by
turning vehicles, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
those indications.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-6) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-2-7 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.

   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer or Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles
shall not make a right, left or u-turn and shall place proper signs at
such intersections.

      (2)   The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain
hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs or such signs may be removed
when such turns are permitted.

   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right
or left or u-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-7) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-2-8 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.

   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon any street in a business district and
shall not upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless the movement
can be made in safety and without interfering with other traffic.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-8) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-2-9 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.

   (A)   The City Engineer or Traffic Engineer shall designate any
streets or alleys which are to be limited to 1-way traffic.

   (B)   (1)   The City Engineer or Traffic Engineer shall place and
maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be
effective unless the signs are in place.

      (2)   Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement
shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-9) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-2-10 REGULATION OF TRAFFIC AT INTERSECTIONS.

   (A)   The City Engineer or Traffic Engineer shall designate through
streets, intersections where stops are required and intersections where
vehicles shall yield the right-of-way.

   (B)   The City Engineer or Traffic Engineer shall designate any
through street or intersection where vehicles are to stop or yield the
right-of-way.

   (C)   The City Engineer or Traffic Engineer shall erect and maintain
the appropriate signs at every location where a vehicle must stop or
yield the right-of-way.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-10) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-2-11 DRIVERS TO OBEY SIGNS.

   Whenever traffic signs are erected as provided in this article, every
driver of a vehicle shall obey those signs unless directed to proceed by
a police officer or a traffic control signal. No driver shall drive upon
or through any private property such as an oil station, corner or vacant
lot or similar property to avoid obedience to any regulation included in
this article.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-11) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-2-12 PROCESSIONS.

   (A)   No procession or parade, except funeral processions, shall be
held without first securing a permit from the Police Chief, and all such
requests for permits shall state the time, place of formation, proposed
line of march, destination and other information as the Police Chief may
request.

   (B)   A funeral procession composed of a procession of vehicles shall
be identified by such methods as may be determined and designated by the
Police Chief.

   (C)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles
comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are in
motion and when the vehicles are conspicuously designated. This
provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled
by traffic control signals or a police officer.

   (D)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as
near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow
the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-12) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-2-13 SPEED IN ALLEYS.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon
or through a public alley or any part thereof at a speed greater than 10
miles per hour.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-13) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-2-14 VEHICLE DOOR AS TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTION.

   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side adjacent
to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor
shall any person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle
adjacent to moving traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to
load or unload passengers.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-14) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-2-15 UNNECESSARY VEHICLE NOISE.

   (A)   No person shall intentionally operate any vehicle at such a
speed on a curve, straight-of-way or turn, or accelerate or decelerate
such vehicle in such a manner as to create loud and unreasonable noise
through the squealing of tires upon the pavement, or to cause damage to
the roadway, or to cause the surface of the roadway to be displaced in
any manner including throwing dirt, gravel, stone or other roadway
surface or material upon the surface into the air.

   (B)   No person shall violate any of the provisions of division (A)
above while upon the surface of any parking lot or parking space of any
public place.

(Prior Code, § 12-2-15) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

ARTICLE 12-3: PARKING

Section

   12-3-1   Method of parking

   12-3-2   Blocking traffic

   12-3-3   Parking adjacent to schools

   12-3-4   Authority to erect signs restricting parking

   12-3-5   Parking vehicles on sidewalks

   12-3-6   Abandoned vehicles

   12-3-7   Fire lanes

   12-3-8   Disabled person parking

   12-3-9   Parking trucks, trailers and similar vehicles in residential
areas

   12-3-10   Unattended motor vehicles

   12-3-11   Authority to place parking restriction signage

§ 12-3-1 METHOD OF PARKING.

   Except as otherwise provided herein, every vehicle stopped or parked
upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within
18 inches of the right hand curb. The vehicle must be positioned such
that it is not in opposite to the direction of travel.

(Prior Code, § 12-3-1) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-3-2 BLOCKING TRAFFIC.

   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street
in the city in such manner or under such conditions as to leave
available less than 20 feet of the width of the roadway for the free
movement of vehicular traffic, except that a person may stop
temporarily, in the actual loading or unloading of passengers or, when
necessary, in the observance of traffic signs or signals of a police
officer.

   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle within an alley or entrance to
a private driveway except for the loading or unloading of materials
which must be accomplished without blocking the alley or entrance to the
private driveway to the free movement of vehicular traffic.

   (C)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or city
right-of-way where signs prohibiting parking of vehicles are posted.

(Prior Code, § 12-3-2) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-3-3 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.

   When signs are erected indicating no parking on that side of the
street adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle
in any such designated place for 1 hour before school opens until 1 hour
after school closes on any school day.

(Prior Code, § 12-3-3) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-3-4 AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS RESTRICTING PARKING.

   When signs have been erected requiring parking at an angle to the
curb, allowing parking on the left hand curb on 1-way streets, notifying
drivers that parking is prohibited and restricting parking in any way
that may be necessary, it is unlawful for any person to stop or stand a
vehicle in disobedience of such parking restrictions.

(Prior Code, § 12-3-4) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-3-5 PARKING VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.

   No person shall park any vehicle, whether in usable condition or not,
upon any sidewalk in the city nor shall a vehicle owner permit his or
her vehicle to be parked upon any sidewalk in the city.

(Prior Code, § 12-3-5) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-3-6 ABANDONED VEHICLES.

   (A)   No person shall abandon any vehicle on public or private
property.

   (B)   Evidence that a vehicle was left unattended for a period of 48
hours shall be prima facie evidence of abandonment.

   (C)   Members of the Police Department so authorized by the Chief of
Police may remove or cause to be removed any abandoned vehicle.

   (D)   Upon removal, the abandoned vehicle shall be appraised by a
Police Officer designated by the Chief of Police and certified to the
Arizona Department of Transportation.

   (E)   After the vehicle is appraised, it shall be disposed of
pursuant to A.R.S. Title 28, Chapter 8, Article 5, and as amended.

(Prior Code, § 12-3-6) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-3-7 FIRE LANES.

   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle within or upon
a designated fire lane, whether on public or private property.

   (B)   Any vehicle stopped, parked or standing within a fire lane may
be removed at the expense of the vehicle owner. Removal of a vehicle so
in violation may be authorized by a police officer, the Apache Junction
Fire District Chief or his or her representative or the lawful owner or
manager of the adjoining property.

   (C)   A fire lane is an area, parking lot, driveway, roadway or
portion thereof that shall be:

      (1)   Designated or approved by the Apache Junction Fire District
Chief;

      (2)   Marked with standard signs or other markings as approved or
designated by the Apache Junction Fire District Chief; and

      (3)   Maintained clear of obstructions its entire length and width
for fire equipment and access.

(Prior Code, § 12-3-7) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-3-8 DISABLED PERSON PARKING.

   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in a parking
space set aside and identified for use by persons with physical
disabilities only unless the vehicle has a license plate which depicts
an international wheel-chair symbol issued by the Arizona Department of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to A.R.S. § 28-2409, as amended, or has a
removable windshield placard displayed on the front rearview mirror
which depicts the international wheelchair symbol as issued by the
Arizona Department of Motor Vehicles pursuant to A.R.S. § 28-2409, as
amended.

   (B)   Division (A) above shall apply only to those parking spaces
that are identified with standard signs and/or markings as approved by
the City Engineer located on public or private property.

   (C)   Division (A) above shall apply whether such parking space is on
public or private property.

(Prior Code, § 12-3-8) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010; Am. Ord. 1380,
passed 4-3-2012) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-3-9 PARKING TRUCKS, TRAILERS AND SIMILAR VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL
AREAS.

   No person shall stand or park a vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
rating (“GVWR”) in excess of 10,000 pounds, or a tractor, semi-trailer,
trailer or bus on a local or collector street in a residential area,
with the following exceptions:

   (A)   The active loading or unloading of such vehicles while in the
process of delivering goods or services to or within the residential
area;

   (B)   The active loading or unloading of personal baggage within the
residential area for a period of time no greater than 1/2 hour;

   (C)   A temporary stop for a reasonable period of time no greater
than 1-1/2 hour by a vehicle owner who is stopping at his or her
residence; or

   (D)   The occupants of the home have engaged a professional moving
company that is moving personal household items into or out of the home,
which activity does exceed 4 hours.

(Prior Code, § 12-3-9) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-3-10 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.

   (A)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the
ignition and removing the key or when standing upon any perceptible
grade without effectively setting the brake thereon and turning the
front wheels to the curb side of the roadway.

   (B)   Whenever any police officer shall find a motor vehicle standing
unattended with the ignition key in the vehicle, the police officer is
authorized to remove the key from the vehicle, secure the vehicle by
locking the doors and closing the windows, and to deliver the key to the
Apache Junction Police Department, along with an incident report setting
forth where the vehicle was located, the plate and VIN number and other
critical information.

(Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-3-11 AUTHORITY TO PLACE PARKING RESTRICTION SIGNAGE.

   The Public Works Department shall erect parking restriction signage
placing drivers on notice of the types of parking restrictions referred
to in this code.

(Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

ARTICLE 12-4: VEHICLE WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC STREETS

Section

   12-4-1   Weight restrictions within residential areas and other roads

   12-4-2   Weight restrictions on mile grid roadways, U.S. highways and
state routes

   12-4-3   Exemptions

   12-4-4   Weighing of vehicles

   12-4-5   Unlawful weight

   12-4-6   Damage to the street

   12-4-7   Overweight permits

   12-4-8   Penalties

   12-4-9   Designated truck routes

§ 12-4-1 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS WITHIN RESIDENTIAL AREAS AND OTHER ROADS.

   It is unlawful for any person, partnership, association, company or
corporation to:

   (A)   Operate a vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating (“GVWR”)
in excess of 10,000 pounds on the public streets in any residential area
and other roads within the corporate limits of the city, except roads as
indicated in Vol. I, § 12-4-2; or

   (B)   Use the vehicles on the public streets in any residential area
to access private property except for the purpose of parking within the
restrictions of Vol. I, § 12-3-9.

(Prior Code, § 12-4-1) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 12-4-8

§ 12-4-2 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS ON MILE GRID ROADWAYS, U.S. HIGHWAYS AND
STATE ROUTES.

   (A)   The total gross vehicle weight and total gross axle weight of
any motor vehicle truck or trailer, including the load thereon, driven
only on designated truck routes as shown in Vol. I, § 12-4-9, shall not
exceed the gross weight given for the respective distance between the
first and last axles of the group of axles measured longitudinally to
the nearest foot as set forth in the appropriate table at weights
applicable to highways under the jurisdiction of the state by A.R.S. §§
28-1099 and 28-1100 in effect on the date this article becomes effective
or as from time to time subsequently amended.

   (B)   (1)   The state statutory tables and provisions are hereby made
a part of this article in their entirety as though fully set forth
herein.

      (2)   This article shall not apply to fire apparatus, urban mass
transit transportation vehicles, implements of husbandry, including farm
tractors temporarily moved upon a highway, or to vehicles operated under
the terms of a special permit as provided in this article.

[]

 

Click here to view the above map in a PDF document.

(Prior Code, § 12-4-2) (Ord. 869, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1356, passed
4-6-2010) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 12-4-8

§ 12-4-3 EXEMPTIONS.

   Vehicles involved in the pickup or delivery of goods or services, or
vehicles receiving services, vehicles owned by a public or private
utility while necessarily in use in the construction or repair of any
public utility or cable television, so long as they use the most direct
route to accomplish the purpose, emergency vehicles and school buses,
pickups and recreational vehicles shall be exempt from the provisions of
Vol. I, § 12-4-1 unless otherwise specified.

(Prior Code, § 12-4-3) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-4-4 WEIGHING OF VEHICLES.

   Any police or peace officer employed in the State of Arizona, having
reason to believe that the weight of a vehicle and load does not conform
to the provisions of this code, is authorized to require the driver to
stop and submit to a weighing of the same by means of either portable or
stationary scales and may require that the vehicle be driven to the
nearest public scales in the event the scales are within 2 miles.

(Prior Code, § 12-4-4) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 12-4-8

§ 12-4-5 UNLAWFUL WEIGHT.

   (A)   When an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load as provided
in Vol. I, § 12-4-4, determines that the weight does not conform to the
provisions of this article, the officer may require the driver to stop
the vehicle in a suitable place and remain standing until such portion
of the load is removed as may be necessary to reduce the gross weight of
the vehicle to the limit as permitted under this article.

   (B)   All material so unloaded shall be cared for by the owner or
operator of the vehicle at the risk of the owner or operator.

(Prior Code, § 12-4-5) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 12-4-8

§ 12-4-6 DAMAGE TO THE STREET.

   (A)   Any person driving any vehicle, object or contrivance upon any
street, highway or highway structure shall be liable for all damage
which the street, highway or structure may sustain as a result of any
illegal operation, driving or moving of the vehicle, object or
contrivance, or as a result of operating, driving or moving any vehicle,
object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum weight in this
article, even if authorized by a special permit issued as provided in
A.R.S. §§ 28-1103 or 28-1144.

   (B)   When the driver is not the owner of the vehicle, object or
contrivance, but is so operating, driving or moving the same with the
express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner and driver
shall be jointly and severally liable for any damage.

(Prior Code, § 12-4-6) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-4-7 OVERWEIGHT PERMITS.

   The Public Works Director or his or her designee, upon application in
writing and good cause shown, may issue a special permit in writing
authorizing the applicant to operate a vehicle or load exceeding the
maximum specified in this article on any street under the jurisdiction
of the city. Appeals shall be directed to the City Manager within 5
calendar days and the City Manager shall have 3 business days to decide
the appeal, with such decision being final and binding.

(Prior Code, § 12-4-7) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-4-8 PENALTIES.

   (A)   In addition to any other penalties provided herein, any person
convicted of violating the provisions of this article shall be punished
by a fine set forth in the following table:

 

  --------------------------------- ------
  1,001 to 1,250 pounds in excess   $100
  1,251 to 1,500 pounds in excess   $200
  1,501 to 2,000 pounds in excess   $300
  2,001 to 2,500 pounds in excess   $400
  --------------------------------- ------

 

  --------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  2,501 to 3,000 pounds in excess   $500
  3,001 to 3,500 pounds in excess   $840
  3,501 to 4,000 pounds in excess   $980
  4,001 to 4,500 pounds in excess   $1,120
  4,501 to 4,750 pounds in excess   $1,260
  4,751 to 5,000 pounds in excess   $1,400
  Over 5,001 pounds in excess       $1,400 plus an additional $100 for each 1,000 pounds of excess weight
  --------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

 

   (B)   If any arresting officer finds that the person has violated
only the axle weight limitation and not the total weight limitation, the
officer shall request the driver to reload the vehicle to comply with
the axle weight limitations, and if the driver so complies, he or she
shall not be subject to arrest or fine. If the driver does not comply
with the request of the officer to reload, the driver shall be subject
to arrest and fine as provided by this section.

(Prior Code, § 12-4-8) (Am. Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

Statutory reference:

   Progressive Class 2 and Class 3 misdemeanor penalty, see A.R.S. §
28-1101

§ 12-4-9 DESIGNED TRUCK ROUTES.

   Set forth below is the City of Apache Junction’s designated Truck
Route map referred to and included in Vol. I, § 12-4-2.

(Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

ARTICLE 12-5: PARKING VIOLATIONS, LIABILITY AND ENFORCEMENT

Section

   12-5-1   Definitions

   12-5-2   Parking violations and persons liable

   12-5-3   Unarmed police aides

   12-5-4   Volunteer parking enforcement

   12-5-5   Parking notice insurance

   12-5-6   Response to parking notice

   12-5-7   Schedule of sanctions

§ 12-5-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   CIVIL TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any violation of any city ordinance or
provision of this code which regulates the time, place or method of
parking. Parking violations are civil traffic violations of this code.

   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.

   VEHICLE. Either:

      (1)   A self-propelled vehicle; or

      (2)   For the purposes of the laws relating to the imposition of a
tax on motor vehicle fuel, a vehicle that is operated on the highways of
this state and that is propelled by the use of motor vehicle fuel,
including, but not limited to, motor vehicles, trucks with semi-trailers
(i.e. big rigs), RVs, campers and golf carts but does not include a
motorized wheelchair, an electric personal assistive mobility device or
a motorized skateboard.

(Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-5-2 PARKING VIOLATIONS AND PERSONS LIABLE.

   (A)   Stopping, standing or parking at all times on any street is
prohibited if official signs are erected and in place giving notice
thereof that stopping, standing or parking is prohibited.

   (B)   It is unlawful for a vehicle to be parked in violation of any
city ordinance or provision of this code regulating the time, place or
method of parking. Violations of any city ordinance or provision of this
code regulating the time, place or method of parking which are
continuous in nature shall constitute a separate and distinct violation
for each full hour thereof.

   (C)   Whenever a vehicle is parked in violation of a city ordinance
or provision of this code regulating the time, place or method of
parking, the owner or owners of the vehicle, the registered owner or
owners of the vehicle and the person who parked or placed the vehicle
where the violation occurred shall be jointly and individually liable
for the violation and for the civil sanction prescribed herein.

   (D)   A vehicle parked contrary to or inconsistent with any city
ordinance or provision of this code regulating the time, place or method
of parking which provides that “no person” may stop, stand or park a
vehicle at a designated location or contrary to any limitations,
restrictions or other provision regulating the time, place or method of
parking, is deemed to be parked in violation of the ordinance or
provision of this code.

   (E)   Whenever a vehicle is parked upon the public right-of-way or
other property in violation of this code and the vehicle has previously
been the subject of 5 or more violations of the same parking provision
of this code within a 12 month period but the civil sanctions prescribed
under the Apache Junction City Code for those violations have not been
satisfied, then the vehicle shall be deemed to constitute a public
nuisance and the owner of the vehicle consents to immobilization, towing
and impoundment of the vehicle. A possessory lien is hereby created and
attached to such vehicle for the payment, in cash or its equivalent, of
all current and accumulated parking tickets and for reasonable costs
associated with immobilization, towing and impoundment.

(Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 12-5-3 UNARMED POLICE AIDES.

   As authorized by A.R.S. § 28-627(E), the Police Chief is authorized
to appoint, and when necessary remove, unarmed police aides who shall be
employed by the Police Department and shall be empowered to commence an
action or proceeding before a court or judge for any violation of the
ordinances of the city regulating the standing or parking of vehicles.
The authority of unarmed police aides is strictly limited to the
enforcement of ordinances of the city regulating the standing or parking
of vehicles, and in no way shall be construed to grant other powers or
benefits to which peace officers of this state are entitled.

(Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-5-4 VOLUNTEER PARKING ENFORCEMENT.

   As authorized by A.R.S. § 28-886, the Police Chief may establish a
volunteer parking enforcement program for parking for persons with
physical disabilities. The Police Chief or his or her designated
representative is authorized to appoint volunteers to issue citations
for violations of Vol. I, § 12-3-8, regulating parking in parking spaces
for persons with physical disabilities.

(Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-5-5 PARKING NOTICE INSURANCE.

   (A)   In an action involving unlawful parking, a copy of the notice
need not be personally served upon the owner or operator of the vehicle
but may be served by attaching a copy to the vehicle.

   (B)   The notice shall include the date, time and location of the
violation, the state license number of the vehicle unlawfully parked,
reference to the city code provision violated and notice that within 7
calendar days from the day on which the notice was issued the sanction
for the violation must be paid and received by the Apache Junction
Municipal Court or a request made and received by the Apache Junction
Municipal Court for a hearing to contest the alleged violation. The
notice shall also list the additional sanctions applied (from 8 to 30
days and after 30 days) in which the citation remains unpaid.

   (C)   The notice, or copy thereof, shall constitute prima facie
evidence of the parking infraction.

(Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-5-6 RESPONSE TO PARKING NOTICE.

   Within 7 calendar days from the day on which the notice was issued,
the person or persons liable for the parking violation shall respond to
the notice by 1 of the following methods:

   (A)   By appearing in person, by representation or by mail to the
Apache Junction Municipal Court within the 7 calendar day period,
admitting responsibility for the violation and paying the civil sanction
prescribed for the violation. The phrase “by representation” noted in
this article and in division (B) below means a person who is actively
licensed in the State of Arizona as an attorney in good standing with
the Arizona State Bar and who has agreed to advocate for the person or
persons liable for the parking violation;

   (B)   By contacting the Apache Junction Municipal Court in person, by
representation, by telephone, by mail within the 7 calendar day period
and requesting a hearing to contest the alleged violation. The hearing
officer at this hearing may accept the defendant’s explanation and
dismiss the notice of violation or shall inform the defendant that the
civil sanction must be paid or a request must be made for a civil
traffic hearing to contest the alleged violation; and/or

   (C)   A request for a hearing or payment of the civil sanction will
be considered received by the city if it is actually delivered to the
Apache Junction Municipal Court or postmarked within 7 calendar days
after the date the notice of violation was issued. A request for a
hearing made by telephone will be considered received the day it is made
if it is received by an Apache Junction Municipal Court employee between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. of any day, except on Saturday,
Sunday or a city holiday.

(Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010)

§ 12-5-7 SCHEDULE OF SANCTIONS.

   (A)   The sanctions listed in the following schedule are the minimum
sanctions that may be imposed by the Apache Junction Municipal Court or
other court, should the case be transferred thereto, for violations of
the articles of the city code listed below, except that in cases
involving violations of Apache Junction City Code, Volume I, § 12-3-8,
the court may, on the first issuance of a citation, reduce the minimum
sanction to $50 upon being shown proof or otherwise reasonably believing
that the violator had a removable windshield placard but either forgot
to place it or it fell out of sight of the enforcing officer.

   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this code other
than those specified in the following schedule shall be liable for the
imposition of a civil sanction not to exceed $250.

 

  ---------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------
  City Ordinance   Description                                                                       Initial Sanction When Paid Within 7 Calendar Days   Sanction When Paid Within 8 - 30 Calendar Days   Sanction When Unpaid After 30 Calendar Days
  12-3-1           Parking more than 18 inches from curb.                                            $30.00                                              $60.00                                           $120.00
  12-3-2(A)        Blocking traffic.                                                                 $30.00                                              $60.00                                           $120.00
  12-3-2(B)        Blocking a public or private driveway or entrance to an alley.                    $50.00                                              $100.00                                          $200.00
  12-3-2(C)        Parking where prohibited or restricted by official signs.                         $50.00                                              $100.00                                          $200.00
  12-3-3           Parking adjacent to schools where prohibited by signs.                            $30.00                                              $60.00                                           $120.00
  12-3-4           Parking contrary to posted angle, 1-way or prohibited/restricted parking signs.   $30.00                                              $60.00                                           $120.00
  12-3-5           Parking on a sidewalk, or in the area between the curb and the sidewalk.          $50.00                                              $100.00                                          $200.00
  12-3-6(A)        Parking an abandoned vehicle on a street or other public property.                $50.00                                              $100.00                                          $200.00
  12-3-7(A)        Stopping, standing or parking in a fire lane.                                     $100.00                                             $200.00                                          $300.00
  12-3-8           Parking in places reserved for the physically disabled.                           $300.00                                             $400.00                                          $500.00
  12-3-9           Parking over-sized vehicles in residential areas.                                 $50.00                                              $100.00                                          $200.00
  12-3-10          Parking an unattended vehicle on a roadway.                                       $50.00                                              $100.00                                          $200.00
  ---------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------

 

(Ord. 1356, passed 4-6-2010; Am. Ord. 1380, passed 4-3-2012)

CHAPTER 13: PUBLIC WORKS

      Article

         13-1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS

         13-2.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS

         13-3.   ENCROACHMENT PERMITS

         13-4.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES LOCATED IN PUBLIC
RIGHTS-OF-WAY

ARTICLE 13-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS

[RESERVED]

ARTICLE 13-2: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS

Section

   13-2-1   Reserved

   13-2-2   Definitions

   13-2-3   Street improvements

   13-2-4   Roadway abandonments and right-of-way easement

   13-2-5   Assignment of street names and parcel addresses

   13-2-6   Improvement of streets prior to development of adjacent
property

   13-2-7   Street financing policy for improvement districts

§ 13-2-1 RESERVED.

   This section has been reserved for future legislation.

(Ord. 1424, passed 6-19-2016)

§ 13-2-2 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   ABANDON, ABANDONING, ABANDONMENT. Any one of the methods as set forth
in this article whereby the Council may dispose of streets or portions
of streets no longer necessary for public use as streets.

   ABUTTING. Two or more lots or parcels of land sharing a common
boundary line.

   CITY. City of Apache Junction, a municipal corporation.

   COST. The actual cost of:

      (1)   Right-of-way acquisition;

      (2)   Construction of the public street improvements as determined
by the construction contract price or by actual costs if work was not
performed under contract;

      (3)   Inspection, testing and permit fees;

      (4)   Engineering fees required for the preparation of plans and
specifications; or

      (5)   Other incidental fees required to complete the improvements.

   COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Apache Junction.

   DEVELOPMENT. Construction of residential, commercial or industrial
projects or major additions or alterations to existing structures and
includes new buildings or structures on property having existing
buildings or structures situated thereon. When such property is zoned
for agricultural or single-family residential use at the time of
assessment, subsequent DEVELOPMENT shall require a change of use or
purpose (construction of buildings or structures on vacant, undeveloped
property is considered a change of use of purpose).

   EASEMENT. An interest in a defined area of land granted to or owned
by another that entitles its holder to specific limited uses or
purposes, such as, but not limited to, ingress and egress.

   EXTINGUISHMENT. The term in which the roadway portion of a federally
patented easement, or a private easement, is relinquished to the owner
of the underlying property resulting in elimination of the public’s
right to use in perpetuity.

   GRANTEE. Recipient of the interest conveyed by the grantor.

   OWNER. The person who has the right to possess and use real property
to the exclusion of others.

   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, company, firm,
association and any other form of organization who may carry on
business, foreign or domestic, or their successors or assigns, or the
agent of any of the aforesaid.

   PROPERTY OWNER. The individual, corporation, partnership, trust or
other legal entity that owns property.

   RIGHT-OF-WAY, Land which by deed, conveyance, agreement, easement,
dedication or process of law is reserved for or dedicated to the general
public for street, highway, alley, public utility, pedestrian walkway,
bikeway, drainage or other purposes.

   ROADWAY. All or part of any platted or designed public street,
highway, alley, lane, parkway, avenue, road, sidewalk, public utility
easement or other public way, whether or not it has been used as such.

   STREETS. The full width of the right-of-way, easements or federally
patented easements and any road, street, highway, alley, land or
pedestrian walkway used by or for the general public, whether or not the
road, street, highway, alley, land or pedestrian right-of-way has been
improved or accepted for maintenance by the city.

(Ord. 1424, passed 6-19-2016)

§ 13-2-3 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.

   (A)   The “street classification plan” is hereby adopted and amended
in a manner and form affixed hereto and made a part of this article by
reference. A copy of the most recent version of, the plan shall be kept
on file in the office of the City Clerk.

   (B)   It shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of a building
permit for new construction within the city that the required street
improvements be made as set forth in the A.J.C.C., Vol. II, Article
10-3, Street Design and Construction. This provision, however, shall not
be applicable to the construction or installation of individual, single
family construction on individual lots which are in existence at the
time of passage of this division and subsection (C) below, or which are
subsequently created without the necessity of an applicant to comply
with city and state subdivision requirements.

   (C)   (1)   The public works director may postpone the installation
of required off-site improvements provided the applicant enters into an
agreement to install improvements by a specific date and/or in
conjunction with projects being constructed by the city, state, county
or other developers in the vicinity.

      (2)   In granting the postponement, the public works director may
require other interim improvements as deemed necessary for public
safety, drainage, or maintenance.

      (3)   Factors which the public works director shall consider in
determining whether or not improvements shall be postponed include:

         (a)   Inability to establish grade or center at the time of
application;

         (b)   The subject improvement would be less than ½ block or 150
feet in length; and

         (c)   Other pending improvements as a street improvement
district or major utility work which would make the subject improvement
impractical at the time of application for building permit.

      (4)   Should the Public Works Director deny a request for
postponement of off-site improvements, the applicant may appeal the
denial as follows:

         (a)   Applicant shall file an appeal to the city manager.

         (b)   City Manager’s office shall schedule an appellate hearing
within 15 days.

         (c)   City Manager’s office shall provide, a written, final
decision within five days after the , appellate hearing.

         (d)   Applicant may appeal the final decision within 10 days to
a civil hearing officer.

         (e)   The civil hearing officer’s decision shall be final and
binding subject to a further appeal with the superior court under Title
12 (A.R.S. § 12-901 et seq.).

   (D)   All street improvements shall be constructed in accordance with
the current edition of the Maricopa Association of Governments standard
details and specifications, which standard details and specifications
shall be the standards of design and construction for the city, provided
however, that the public works director may revise, delete or add
standard details and specifications by supplement and addendum as may be
required and acceptable under the metro Phoenix development industry.

(Ord. 1424, passed 6-19-2016)

§ 13-2-4 ROADWAY ABANDONMENTS AND RIGHT-OF-WAY EASEMENT.

   (A)   Disposition of unnecessary public roadway. Upon recommendation
from the public works director, the Council may dispose of unnecessary
public roadway either by trade, sale, vacation, exchange, abandonment or
extinguishment in accordance with state law;

   (B)   Allocation of vacated roadway. The following shall be the order
and method for determining allocation of vacated property.

      (1)   In the event that the width of a roadway is to be vacated,
the order of obtaining the right to title shall be:

         (a)   First, the owner of the land abutting the vacated roadway
to the same extent that the land included within the roadway, at the
time the roadway was acquired for public use, was a part of the
subdivided land or was part of the adjacent land;

         (b)   Second, owners on the opposite side of the roadway from
the owner in subsection (l)(a) above, for any or all the portion not
desired by the subsection (l)(a) owner; and

         (c)   Third, the person making to the council the best offer,
provided that the offer meets at least the minimum requirements as
established by the council.

      (2)   In the event that less than the entire width is vacated,
title to the vacated portion shall vest in the owners of the land where
and to the degree the land is abutting the vacated portion.

      (3)   In the event that a roadway bounded by straight lines is
vacated, title to the vacated roadway shall vest in the owners of the
abutting land, each abutting owner taking to the center of the roadway,
except as provided in subsection (B)(1) and (2) above. In the event that
the boundary lines of abutting lands do not intersect the roadways at a
right angle, the land included within the roadway shall vest as provided
in subsection (B)(4) below,

      (4)   In all instances not specifically provided for, title to the
vacated roadway shall vest in the owners of the abutting land, each
abutting owner taking that portion of the vacated roadway to which his
land, or any part thereof, is nearest in proximity.

   (C)   Access to public road. No roadway shall be vacated so as to
leave any land adjoining the roadway without an established public road
connecting the lands with another public roadway.

   (D)   Reservation of easements. Right-of-way easements for any one or
all of existing sewer, gas, water or similar pipelines and appurtenances
and for canals, laterals or ditches and appurtenances and for electric,
telephone and similar lines and appurtenances shall continue as they
existed prior to the disposal or abandonment of the public roadway.

   (E)   Resolution of disposition; effective when recorded.

      (1)   A council resolution disposing of a roadway or portion
thereof or applying such roadway to another public use shall describe
the roadway and set forth its disposition or use.

      (2)   The resolution shall take effect when it is recorded in the
office of the county recorder of the county within Which the roadway or
portion thereof is located.

   (F)   Extinguishment of easements. If the city owns no title to a
roadway but holds right-of-way easements, only the easements may be
extinguished by resolution of the council.

   (G)   Abandonment of roadways or right-of-way easements; application
and filing; generally. Any person desiring to have any roadway abandoned
or right-of-way easement extinguished, shall make application for the
same on forms approved by and filed with the department of public works.
In addition to the application and associated fees, the applicant shall
submit a complete, current title report showing the nature of the
easement or right-of-way interest or other ownership interest, including
but not limited to any and all existing liens, mortgages or other
encumbrances. If deemed essential by the city engineer, an appraisal to
determine the value of the targeted property, or the estimated value of
the property proposed for exchange, shall be obtained by the city
engineer at the applicant’s sole expense.

   (H)   Roadway abandonment and right-of-way easement extinguishments;
application and filing processing fee. A non-refundable application fee,
as established in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Chapter 4, Fees, must be submitted
with any application for abandonment of roadways or right-of-way
easement extinguishments. A nonrefundable application fee will be
assessed to the benefiting property owner to provide for city
administrative costs except that the fee shall be lower where the
benefiting property consists solely of developed residential property.
However, no fee shall be charged when the application for abandonment is
initiated by the city.

   (I)   Abandonment of roadways and extinguishment of right-of-way
easements; required reports,

      (1)   Upon application for abandonment of roadways or right-of-way
easements to the public works director, the Director shall submit copies
of the application, and all appropriate attachments thereto, to the
director of development services, the director of public safety and the
city engineer.

      (2)   The public works director shall also submit copies of the
application and all attachments to all public utility providers, who
shall have up to 60 calendar days to comment on the roadway abandonment
or right-of-way extinguishment.

      (3)   No abandonment or extinguishment may be finalized by council
unless recommendations from all utility providers have been solicited
and such providers either had no objection or otherwise failed to
respond after at least two documented attempts to contact were ignored.

(Ord. 1424, passed 6-19-2016)

§ 13-2-5 ASSIGNMENTS OF STREET NAMES AND PARCEL ADDRESSES.

   (A)   The streets and alignments of streets appearing on the map
entitled “official street naming map of Apache Junction, Arizona,”
incorporated herein, shall be the official street names for streets
within the City Of Apache Junction, either as existing on February 4,
1981 or upon becoming public streets of Apache Junction.

   (B)   When there is a change in part or all of a street name,
property owners shall be given 12 months from the effective date of the
change to correct their mailing address.

   (C)   (1)   Future requests for street names shall be initially
reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Apache
Junction, Arizona, and the Apache Junction, Arizona; United States Post
Office, who shall submit their recommendations to the council for
action.

      (2)   No future streets shall be named except by ordinance of the
council.

   (D)   The zoning administrator shall maintain an address map, and
assign addresses to various parcels of land within the city according to
rules and regulations of the department of public works, as may from
time to time be amended.

(Ord. 1424, passed 6-19-2016)

§ 13-2-6 IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS PRIOR TO DEVELOPMENT OF ADJACENT
PROPERTY.

   (A)   Street improvements; assessment policy.

      (1)   The council may determine that certain streets within the
city shall be constructed or improved prior to development of the
property adjacent to the streets in accordance with state law or as
hereafter provided by this article,

      (2)   If deemed necessary, the council may order the streets
constructed or improved at city expense. The expense shall be assessed
against the adjoining property subject to the following:

         (a)   The assessment of adjoining property for streets shall
not exceed the cost of improving more than ½ of the street width;

         (b)   Any parcel of land, which at the time of assessment is
used for single-family residential use, shall not be assessed greater
than ½ the costs of a residential street; and

         (c)   The assessment of property for all related work shall not
exceed the actual costs incurred by the city prior to and at the time of
construction.

   (B)   Street improvements; assessment procedure.

      (1)   The council, at a public hearing, shall determine the
necessity of street improvements if the cost thereof is to be assessed
against adjacent property. Notice of the hearing shall be given to the
property owners who would be assessed for the costs of the improvements
by regular mail no less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing.
Notice of hearing shall contain:

         (a)   A description of the proposed street improvements;

         (b)   The estimated cost for each affected parcel of property;
and

         (c)   The date, time and place that the council shall consider
the necessity of improvements and adoption of a resolution of intention.
Notice shall also be published in a newspaper of general, circulation,
published or circulated in the city and, in addition, shall
conspicuously be posted along the line of the proposed improvements at
least 10 days prior to the hearing.

      (2)   The property owners and any other persons directly
interested in the work or in the assessment may, prior to the time fixed
for the hearing, file in the office of the city clerk a written
objection briefly specifying the grounds for objection.

      (3)   At the public hearing, the governing body shall hear and
pass upon any objections to the proposed improvements and its decision
shall be final and conclusive. It may modify the extent of the proposed
improvements and proceed without the necessity for republishing,
reposting and remailing new notices.

      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the council may pass its
resolution of intention directing that plans, specifications and
estimates of the cost and expenses of the proposed improvements be
prepared.

      (5)   Upon completion of construction and finalization of the
project, the council shall by resolution at a public hearing determine
the final cost of the improvements and assess against the properties
adjacent to the street improvement the total amount of the costs and
expenses for the work. Notice of this public hearing shall be given to
the property owners who would be assessed for the costs of improvements,
by regular mail at least 10 days prior to the date of the hearing. This
notice shall contain:

         (a)   A description of the street improvements; and

         (b)   The amount of the proposed assessment for each affected
parcel of property.

      (6)   The property owners and any other persons directly
interested in the work or in the assessment who have any objection to
the legality of the assessment or to any of the previous proceedings
connected therewith, or who claim that the work has not been performed
according to the contract, may, prior to the time fixed for the hearing,
file in the office of the city clerk a written notice briefly specifying
the grounds for objection. At the time fixed for the hearing or at any
time thereafter to which the hearing may be postponed, the council shall
hear and rule upon the objections. The decision of the council shall be
final and conclusive as to all errors, informalities and irregularities
which the council might have remedied or avoided at any time during the
progress of the proceedings.

      (7)   The council’s resolution shall provide that any assessments
remaining unpaid shall be paid prior to or at the time of rezoning or
development of the assessed property.

      (8)   The resolution declaring the assessment and describing the
properties against which the assessments are imposed shall be recorded
in the office of the Pinal County Recorder. When so recorded the amount
so assessed shall be a lien upon the properties until the assessments
are paid.

      (9)   When it is necessary to improve a full-street and sufficient
right-of-way is not available, the city may obtain necessary
right-of-way. by rezoning, building permit, street abandonment,
donation, acquisition or condemnation. Any costs incurred by the city to
obtain right-of-way shall be assessed to that respective parcel.

   (C)   Manner of collecting unpaid assessments at time of rezoning or
development. At the time of rezoning or development of the property, the
applicant shall pay the assessment as previously determined by the city
prior to the city’s processing of a rezoning application or issuance of
a building permit. Should the rezoning application or building permit
not be approved or issued, the payment shall be returned to the
applicant whereupon the process may be repeated until the property is
rezoned or developed and the assessment paid.

(Ord. 1424, passed 6-19-2016)

§ 13-2-7 STREET FINANCING POLICY FOR IMPROVEMENTS DISTRICTS.

   (A)   Improvements in general.

      (1)   The cost of all street and related improvements including
but not limited to paving, storm drains, utility installations,
landscaping, signalization and lighting located in or adjacent to new
projects or areas to be developed or redeveloped, shall be the full
responsibility of the owner of such an area to be developed or
redeveloped. Construction of such improvements shall meet applicable
standards of the city.

      (2)   If approved by the city, the improvements may be constructed
as part of an improvement district in accordance with subsection (B)
below.

   (B)   Improvement districts. If the improvements required by
subsection (A) above are constructed as part of an improvement district,
the provisions of this section shall apply.

      (1)   Except as provided in subsections (B)(2), (3) and (4) below,
property in an improvement district shall be assessed for all the street
and related improvements constructed pursuant to the improvement
district and shall be assessed in accordance with the method of
assessment adopted by the council for the cost of the improvements.

      (2)   Except in an improvement district created primarily to
benefit existing single-family residential uses, an existing
single-family residential use may receive a credit for the street and
related improvements equal to its assessment as determined by the
assessment method for the improvement district. If the existing
single-family residential use changes to use other than single-family
residential use, then upon rezoning or upon development (defined as
issuance of a. building permit for a use other than a single-family
residential Use on the property) the credit shall be extinguished and
any amount credited for the construction of the improvements by the
improvement district shall be paid to the city. No zoning change shall
be approved nor building permit be issued for the property related to a
change of use from a single-family residential use until the amount of
the credit is paid.

      (3)   A single-family residential use existing at the time of the
adoption of a resolution of intention to create the improvement district
maybe included in the improvement district. If included in the district
and if the district is not created primarily to benefit existing
single-family residential uses, the owner of the property shall either:

         (a)   Pay the assessments associated with that property; or

         (b)   Enter into an agreement with the city which provides the
terms and conditions under which the city will pay the cost
(assessments) of the improvements and property owner repays those costs
(assessments) upon a zoning change, development of the property (defined
as issuance of a building permit for a use other than a single-family
residential use), or sale of any of the property.

      (4)   The assessments for street and related improvements in a
subdivision may be paid by the subdivider of the subdivision rather than
the purchaser of the lots from the subdivider if the subdivider enters
into a contract with the city for the payment of the assessments. The
contract shall be recorded in the office of the Pinal County recorder.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

ARTICLE 13-3: ENCROACHMENT PERMITS

Section

   13-3-1   Permits

   13-3-2   Inspections

   13-3-3   Fee schedule

   13-3-4   Unauthorized work

   13-3-5   Control of work

   13-3-6   Emergency repair

   13-3-7   Construction standards

   13-3-8   Assurance of construction

   13-3-9   Liability and property insurance

   13-3-10   Exemptions

   13-3-11   Suspension and revocation

   13-3-12   Notice of hearing and appeal

   13-3-13   Penalties

§ 13-3-1 PERMITS.

   (A)   All applications for permits shall be in writing on a form as
provided by the city. Applications shall be submitted at least 3 working
days prior to start of construction and shall, unless waived by the
public works director, hereinafter throughout this article referred to
as “public works director” collectively, be accompanied by three copies
of a drawing, map, diagram or similar exhibit of a size and sufficient
to clearly illustrate the location, dimension, motive, method and
purpose of the proposed work. Applicants for the permits may be either
an owner or contractor; however, the work may be performed only by:

      (1)   A contractor;

      (2)   Utility company;

      (3)   Governmental agency; or

      (4)   Resident owner of residential property where the property
owner proposes to do the work. If the improvement to be constructed
under the permit is not to become the property of the city and if the
applicant is someone other than the owner, the owner shall also sign the
permit form indicating agreement to the conditions of the permit.

   (B)   Permits shall be issued only to the person, corporation,
political subdivision or other entity making application, and therefore
may not be assigned to another person, corporation, political
subdivision or entity by the permittee. If the permittee assigns the
permit to another, the permit shall become void.

   (C)   If the public works director finds the following, he or she may
issue a permit:

      (1)   That a proposed encroachment will hot be detrimental to the
health, safety or welfare of the community or the surrounding property;
and

      (2)   The proposed encroachment will not be detrimental to the
condition of any public road, street, alley, federally patented easement
or right-of-way of any public street, alley or way not a state highway
located within the municipality; and

      (3)   When completed, the proposed encroachment will not interfere
with access to any public place.

      (4)   If the proposed encroachment does not meet each of the
requirements of the preceding sentences, the director may impose such
special conditions to the permit. Any decision of the public works
director hereunder may be appealed in accordance with the provisions of
A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 13-3-12(B). In the event of any appeal, no permit
will be issued while the appeal is pending.

   (D)   Conditions to a permit shall include those contained in the
current edition of the Maricopa Association of Governments Uniform
Standard Details for Public Works Construction, and as hereafter may be
amended, and/or the current edition of the Maricopa Association of
Governments Uniform Specifications for Public Works Construction, and as
hereafter may be amended, and/or the City of Apache Junction Engineering
Standards, as amended, as the public works director may deem applicable
to the proposed encroachment. Additional requirements may be added to a
permit in accordance with the provisions of subsection (C) above. Work
pursuant to a permit must be completed within the time indicated on the
permit, which shall not exceed 12 months. If work is not completed
within the allotted time, the permit shall be canceled by the city. If a
permit is canceled and the applicant or contractor desires to complete
the work, a new permit must be obtained for such remaining work.

   (E)   New pavement construction, pavement overlay or pavement
reconstruction on newly paved streets may not be cut for 3 years after
their initial completion, subject to the exceptions set forth below.
Underground utility work will be permitted during the three year period
but an underground bore must first be performed. If boring is not an
option and connections cannot be made at an alternate location, then
open cuts of newly paved streets may be permitted upon approval of the
public works director. If the public works director approves in writing
excavation on newly paved arterial, section line and mid-section line
streets, the following criteria must be fully met:

      (1)   A 1-sack slurry backfill will be required for all trenches
unless otherwise approved in writing by the public works director;

      (2)   The base asphalt shall be T-Top according to the Apache
Junction Standard Detail 200M-AJ extending 12 inches beyond the
undisturbed trench walls;

      (3)   The entire roadway width (lip of gutter to lip of gutter)
shall be chip sealed per MAG Section 330 for a minimum width of 10 feet
on both sides of the trench centerline for which trenches extend beyond
the road centerline. The roadway shall be chip sealed per MAG Section
330 for a minimum width of 10 feet on both sides of the trench
centerline, from the lip of the gutter to the roadway centerline for
trenches which do not cross the roadway centerline. Slurry seal, per MAG
Section 332, may be substituted for chip seal only with written
permission of the public works director;

      (4)   All trench backfill and overlay will be inspected by the
public works department - engineering division, and any work not
conforming to MAG Standards will be ordered removed and replaced by the
contractor at the contractor’s expense;

      (5)   The period from the date trenching begins to the date the
roadway overlaying is completed shall not exceed 2 weeks unless approved
in writing by the public works director; and

      (6)   These above conditions are in addition to the procedures and
requirements of the current encroachment permit process.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 13-3-2 INSPECTIONS.

   (A)   All work being performed must be performed in accordance with
the ordinances and codes of the city, the Maricopa Association of
Governments Uniform Standard Details for Public Works Construction, the
Maricopa Association of Governments Uniform Standard Specifications for
Public Works Construction, the Engineering standards of the City of
Apache Junction, Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and the
approved construction drawings as submitted. If building codes require
building permits for the work being performed, applicants must conform
with those particular provisions of the ordinances of the city.

   (B)   The public works director may provide applicants with
inspection services to determine if the improvements constructed are
substantially in accordance with the approved plan, special condition
and permit granted. Any person or corporation, association or political
subdivision doing work under any permit as set forth in this article
shall notify the public works department at least 2 full working days in
advance of the time and place needing an inspection.

   (C)   Any and all inspections by the city shall be at such locations
and in such frequency, manner and method as may be determined by the
public works director.

   (D)   Neither the issuance of an encroachment permit, nor the
completion of an inspection, nor permission from the public works
department for the conduct of construction work shall constitute a
representation, warranty or guarantee, express or implied, that either
the encroachment or construction being performed complies with the
applicable laws and ordinances or is free from defects or will perform
or last in any particular way.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 13-3-3 FEE SCHEDULE.

   Applicant shall, before any permit is issued, provide the city with a
fee to offset expenses incurred in connection with processing and
inspecting work. See A.J.C.C., Vol. I, Chapter 4, Fees.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 13-3-4 UNAUTHORIZED WORK.

   (A)   Any work undertaken prior to securing a permit may be required
to be restored to its original condition prior to granting a permit, or
the city may charge a fee not to exceed $2,000 in addition to the normal
fee for inspection and examination of the work done, prior to issuance
of a permit.

   (B)   The public works department may issue a stop work order for
work undertaken without a permit. All stop work orders shall require
that work cease until the public works department determines whether the
construction should be restored to its original condition or grants a
permit in accordance with this article.

   (C)   It shall be an unlawful act for any work to be undertaken,
except for emergency repair as provided herein, without first securing a
permit. Each day unauthorized construction work has not been restored to
its original condition or exists prior to issuance of a permit shall be
a separate offense and punishable pursuant to A.J.C.C. Vol. I, § 1-1-11.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 13-3-5 CONTROL OF WORK.

   The authority of the public works director with regard to work being
performed hereunder shall be that as contained in the current edition of
the Maricopa Association of Governments Uniform Specifications for
Public Works Construction, or as hereafter amended. The public works
director is hereby authorized to suspend work and issue stop work orders
in accordance with the provisions of the specifications. It shall be an
unlawful act for anyone to conduct work in contravention of an issued
stop work order. Each day work has not been restored to its original
condition prior to issuance of the stop work order or exists in
contravention of a stop work order shall be a separate offense and
punishable pursuant to A.J.C.C. Vol. I, § 1-1-11.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 13-3-6 EMERGENCY REPAIR.

   This article shall not prevent any person, corporation, political
subdivision or entity who has legal authority to occupy the easements,
streets, alleys or rights-of-way of the public roads, streets, alleys or
rights-of-way of the city from maintaining any pipe or utility lawfully
on or under any public street, or from making excavation or performing
any work as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property
when an urgent necessity arises during the hours the city offices are
closed, except that those making emergency use shall apply for a permit
within 1 calendar day after the city offices are again open.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 13-3-7 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.

   All work performed in the public road, streets, alleys or ways shall
be done in accordance with the ordinances and codes of the city, the
current edition of the Maricopa Association of Governments Uniform
Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction and as hereafter
may be amended, the current edition of the Maricopa Association of
Governments Uniform Standard Details for Public Works Construction and
as hereafter may be amended, the City of Apache Junction Engineering
standards, as amended, the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices as
adopted by the Arizona Department of Transportation, and any approved
permit, plan, specifications and special provisions of the city for such
installation. The public works director may require additional work,
materials, equipment and devices to properly control traffic, provide
access to adjoining property and maintain other facilities in the area
during the time work is being performed.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 13-3-8 ASSURANCE OF CONSTRUCTION.

   Prior to issuing a permit, each applicant shall submit to the city an
assurance of construction as outlined in the current edition of the
city’s engineering standards. In the event the public works director
determines that special circumstances apply, and additional financial
assurances to the city are required or that financial assurances may be
otherwise modified or waived prior to issuance of a permit, the public
works director shall provide to the applicant notice of the requirements
regarding financial assurances together with the reasons and grounds
regarding the requirement of additional financial assurances,
modification from the engineering standards or waiver; Any applicant who
disagrees with a decision of the public works director may appeal the
decision in accordance with the provisions of A.J.C.C., Vol. I, §
13-3-12(B). In the event of an appeal, no permit may be issued while the
appeal is pending. In instances where an applicant is issued numerous
small permits throughout the year, the applicant may post a continuing
use bond to cover work under more than 1 permit. However, this
continuing bond provision is not intended for use to construct
residential and commercial projects. The continuing bond shall be of
value sufficient to cover all work under construction by the permittee
at any time and shall be satisfactory to the city.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 13-3-9 LIABILITY AND PROPERTY INSURANCE.

   (A)   No applicant shall be entitled to a permit under this Article
unless and until the applicant shall have filed and maintained on file
with the city a certificate of insurance certifying that the applicant
carries public liability and property damage insurance issued by an
insurance carrier authorized to do business in the State of Arizona, at
applicant’s own cost and expense, insuring the applicant and the city
and its agents against claims and liability for personal injury, death
and property damage arising, from the construction, operation or
maintenance by .applicant of its facilities, in an amount of not less
than $1,000,000 per occurrence, $2,000,000 aggregate. The city, its
officers, agents and employees shall, also be named as additional
insured parties. It is the intent of the parties that applicant’s
insurance shall be primary and without right of subrogation with respect
to any claim or liability caused by applicant’s negligence or other
misconduct.

   (B)   Failure by the applicant to provide the city with such a
certificate and failure by the city to demand the filing by applicant of
such a certificate before such a permit is issued, shall not be deemed
to waive applicant’s obligation to provide the insurance specified
herein. The insurance certificates shall remain in effect and be kept on
file with the city so long as applicant maintains, operates or owns
facilities within rights-of-way of the city. The insurance certificate
shall provide that coverage cannot be canceled or expire without
providing 30 days written notice to the city of such action and noting
the permit number on the written notice. No evidence of liability
insurance or surety bond shall be required as a condition precedent to
the issuance of a permit to a resident on residential property where the
resident proposes to perform construction in front of resident’s own
property, or a federal, state, county or municipal agency or political
subdivision. The city shall in no way be liable to or responsible for
any accidents or damage which may occur in the construction, operation
by applicant of its appurtenances hereunder, and the acceptance of a
permit shall be deemed an agreement on the part of applicant to
indemnify the city and hold it harmless from and against any and all
liability, loss, costs, legal fees, damage or other expense which may
accrue to city by reason of the negligence, default or misconduct of
applicant and the construction, operation and maintenance of its lines,
facilities or the appurtenances hereunder, including maintenance of
barricades and traffic control devices in construction and maintenance
areas. Applicant agrees to pay on behalf of city any claims, settlement
or judgments, including legal fees, made or entered against city as a
result of injury or damage to any person or property occasioned by the
exercise of any permit issued to applicant.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 13-3-10 EXEMPTIONS.

   A no-cost permit may be issued to federal, state or county agencies,
a political subdivision, or for a cable television system or a public
utility which holds a license or franchise from the city, or to
contractors under contract with the city for projects owned and
maintained by the city.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 13-3-11 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.

   (A)   The public works director shall be authorized to stop work or
refuse to renew any permit of any applicant or contractor who is in
violation of any provision of this article or any condition or
requirement of an issued permit. Any stop work or refusal to renew shall
continue until such violation has been fully corrected. All work is to
cease during a period of suspension or nonrenewal.

   (B)   Permits issued under the provisions of this article may be
revoked by the public works director after notice and hearing, for any
of the following causes:

      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for permit;

      (2)   Any violation of this article;

      (3)   Any violation of any of the terms and conditions of the
permit as issued;

      (4)   Conducting a business in violation of the provisions of the
ordinances of the city or in violation of the Arizona Revised Statutes
Annotated; or

      (5)   A determination by the public works director that the
encroachment interferes with a need by the municipality for use of the
street, alley or way for another public purpose.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 13-3-12 NOTICE OF HEARING AND APPEAL.

   (A)   Notice of any decision of the public works director from which
an appeal is provided or for revocation of permit shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the decision and, in
the case of revocation, the time and place of hearing. The notice shall
be mailed, postage prepaid, certified mail to the applicant, contractor
or permittee at the address shown on the application for permit. In the
case of revocation, the notice shall be mailed at least 10 calendar days
prior to the date set for hearing.

   (B)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the public works director
pursuant to A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 13-3-1(C), (D), and A.J.C.C., Vol. I, §
13-3-8, or a decision with reference to the revocation of a license
shall have the right of appeal to the City Manager. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Clerk, within 14 calendar days after
notice of the action complained of has been mailed to such person’s
address as shown on the application for permit, a written statement
setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The City Manager shall
set a time and place for a hearing on the appeal, and notice of the
hearing shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as provided
for notice of hearing on revocation. The decision and order of the City
Manager shall be final and conclusive, except any person aggrieved may
pursue any proper judicial proceedings.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

§ 13-3-13 PENALTIES.

   Any person violating or failing or refusing to do or perform any act
required or provided for any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be
guilty of a Class 1 Misdemeanor, and shall be subject to the penalty and
multiple charging provisions set forth in A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 1-1-11.

(Ord. 1424, passed 5-19-2016)

ARTICLE 13-4: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES LOCATED IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY

Section

   13-4-1   Purpose

   13-4-2   Penalty

   Appendix A   Design standards, concepts and requirements for small
wireless facilities in the rights-of-way

   Appendix B   Wireless facilities standard terms and conditions

§ 13-4-1 PURPOSE.

   This article provides design standards, concepts and requirements, as
well as standard terms and conditions necessary for the preservation of
the public rights-of-way (“ROW”) in the city for the maximum benefit and
use for the public and applies to the siting, construction or
modification of any and all small wireless facilities (“SWF”) proposed
to be located in the ROW.

   (A)   Application authority. Any application for a SWF to be located
in the ROW is subject to approval by the city engineer in addition to
other requirements and processes specified in this chapter to include
the design standards, concepts and requirements set forth under Appendix
A, and standard terms and conditions set forth in Appendix B. Location
or collocation of wireless equipment on city-owned poles shall be at the
discretion of the city engineer as per state law.

   (B)   Eligible applicants. Only applicants who have been granted the
right to enter the ROW pursuant to state or federal law shall be
eligible to apply to install or modify a SWF or a collocation of such a
facility in the ROW. A valid ROW license shall also be required prior to
construction.

   (C)   Speculative equipment prohibited. The city finds that the
practice of “preapprovtng” wireless equipment or other improvements that
the applicant does not presently intend to install but may wish to
install at some undetermined future time does not serve the public’s
best interest. The city shall not approve any equipment or other
improvements in connection with a SWF application when the applicant
does not actually and presently intend to install such equipment or
construct such improvements.

   (D)   Fiber/cable. No applicant seeking to install SWF antennas shall
seek a ROW use permit for fiber or coaxial cable only. Applicants shall
simultaneously apply for fiber installation or other cable installation
when seeking to install antennas in the ROW.

   (E)   Application. Applications for a SWF in the ROW shall include,
in addition to other application requirements as stated in this article
under Appendices A and B, the following:

      (1)   Detailed engineering plans of the proposed facility and
related report prepared by an Arizona registered engineer documenting
the following:

         (a)   Technical engineering specifications.

         (b)   Evidence that demonstrates that the proposed facility has
been designed to be the least visible equipment within the particular
technology the carrier chooses to deploy.

         (c)   A photograph and model name and number of each piece of
equipment to be used.

         (d)   Power output and operating frequency for the proposed
antenna.

         (e)   Total anticipated capacity of the structure, indicating
the number and types of antennas and power and frequency ranges which
can be accommodated.

         (f)   Sufficient evidence of the structural integrity of the
pole or other supporting structure as required by the city.

         (g)   Electrical and mechanical engineering documents for the
facility and all appurtenant equipment, including support equipment such
as equipment cabinets and backup power.

      (2)   A statement providing the basis for the applicant’s claimed
right to enter the ROW. If the applicant has a certificate of
convenience and necessity (“CCN”) issued by the Arizona Corporation
Commission, it shall provide a copy of its CCN to public works
department staff.

   (F)   Additional design and performance standards.

      (1)   The applicant shall employ screening, undergrounding and
camouflage design techniques in the design and placement of SWF in order
to ensure that the facility is as visually screened as possible, to
prevent the facility from dominating the surrounding area and to
minimize significant view impacts from surrounding properties all in a
manner that achieves compatibility with the community.

      (2)   Screening shall be designed to be architecturally compatible
with surrounding structures using appropriate techniques to camouflage,
disguise, and/or blend into the environment, including landscaping,
color, and other techniques to minimize the facility’s visual impact.

      (3)   Facilities shall be located such that views from an adjacent
residential structure are not significantly impaired.

      (4)   All facilities shall be designed and located in such a
manner as to avoid adverse impacts on traffic safety, including, but not
limited to, being located outside of sight visibility triangles and
clear zones.

      (5)   All facilities shall be of subdued colors and non-reflective
materials that blend with the materials and colors of the surrounding
area and structures.

      (6)   The applicant shall use the least visible equipment
possible. Antenna elements shall be flush-mounted, to the extent
feasible. All antenna mounts shall be designed so as not to preclude
possible future collocation by the same or other operators or carriers.
Unless otherwise provided in this section, antennas shall be situated as
close to the ground as possible.

      (7)   Poles.

         (a)   Only pole-mounted antennas shall be permitted in the ROW.
All other telecommunications towers are prohibited, and no new poles are
permitted that are not replacing existing poles, unless:

            1.   Such new poles shall be designed to resemble existing
poles in the ROW near that location, including size, height, color,
materials, and style, with the exception of any existing pole designs
that are scheduled to be removed and not replaced.

            2.   Such new poles that are not replacement poles shall be
located at least 90 feet from any existing pole to the extent feasible.

            3.   A new pole analysis shall be submitted to demonstrate
that the new pole is designed to be the minimum functional height and
width required to support the proposed facility.

            4.   All cables, including, but not limited to, electrical
and utility cables, shall be run within the interior of the pole and
shall be camouflaged or hidden to the fullest extent possible.

            5.   No new wooden poles shall be permitted. For
collocations on existing wooden poles wherein interior installation is
infeasible, antennas, conduit, cables, and any other appurtenances
attached to the exterior of the poles shall be mounted flush thereto and
painted to match the pole.

         (b)   The maximum height of any antenna shall not exceed:

            1.   Four feet above the height of the existing pole.

            2.   Nor shall any portion of the antenna or equipment
mounted on a pole be less than 24 feet above any driveable road surface
for utility poles, 16 feet above any driveable road surface for light
poles, or 10 feet from sidewalk elevation.

         (c)   No portion of any antenna shall project greater than 24
inches from the pole.

         (d)   Panel or canister antennas, exclusive of shrouds shall
not exceed six cubic feet in dimension.

      (8)   Each facility shall be designed to occupy the least amount
of space in the ROW that is technically feasible.

      (9)   Each facility shall be properly engineered to withstand wind
loads as required by the adopted building code or any duly adopted or
incorporated code. An evaluation of high wind load capacity shall be
submitted and shall include the impact of modification of an existing
facility.

      (10)   Each component part of a facility shall be located so as
not to cause any physical or visual obstruction to pedestrian, bicycle,
or vehicular traffic, inconvenience the public’s use of the ROW, or
create safety hazards to pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists, and
shall not be located within sight visibility triangles.

      (11)   A facility shall not be located within any portion of ROW
interfering with access to a fire hydrant, fire station, fire escape,
water valve, underground vault, valve housing structure, or any other
public health or safety facility.

      (12)   All ground-mounted facilities, pole-mounted equipment, or
walls, fences, landscaping or other screening methods shall be installed
outside of the clear zone as determined by the city engineer. Placement
shall not obstruct existing or future sidewalk locations.

      (13)   Not including the electric meter, all accessory equipment
shall be located underground, unless city staff determines there is no
room in the ROW for undergrounding, or that undergrounding is not
feasible.

         (a)   When above-ground is the only feasible location for a
particular type of accessory equipment and will be ground-mounted:

            1.   Such accessory equipment shall be enclosed within a
structure and shall not exceed a height of five feet and a total
footprint of 15 square feet, and shall be fully screened and/or
camouflaged, including the use of landscaping, architectural treatment,
or acceptable alternate screening. Required electrical meter cabinets
shall be screened and/or camouflaged.

            2.   In locations with rural or residential zoning only
along one side of a street, above-ground accessory equipment shall not
be installed on that side of the street. Such above-ground accessory
equipment shall be installed along the side of the street that is not
rural or residential zoned.

         (b)   While pole-mounted equipment is generally the least
favored installation, should pole-mounted equipment be sought, it shall
be installed as required in this article.

      (14)   Where appropriate, each facility shall be installed so as
to maintain and enhance existing landscaping on the site, including
trees, foliage, and shrubs. Additional landscaping shall be planted,
irrigated, and maintained by applicant where such landscaping is deemed
necessary by the city to provide screening or to conceal the facility.

      (15)   Where facility lighting is required by the FAA, FCC, or
other government entity, a lighting study shall be provided, prepared by
a qualified lighting professional, to evaluate potential impacts to
adjacent properties and traffic.

      (16)   Backup generators shall not be permitted in the ROW.

      (17)   At no time shall equipment noise from any facility exceed
an exterior noise level of 65 dBA three feet from the source of the
noise if the facility is located in the ROW adjacent to a business or
industrial zone. Any facility located within 500 feet of any rural or
residential zone, or a residential or school use, shall not exceed 55
dBA three feet from the source of the noise.

      (18)   Each facility shall be designed to be resistant to, and
minimize opportunities for, unauthorized access, climbing, vandalism,
graffiti, and other conditions that would result in hazardous
situations, visual blight, or attractive nuisances. The director may
require the provision of warning signs, fencing, anti-climbing devices,
or other techniques to prevent unauthorized access and vandalism.

      (19)   Consistent with current federal laws, at the time of
modification of SWF, existing equipment shall, to the extent feasible,
be replaced with equipment that reduces visual, noise, and other
impacts, including, but not limited to, undergrounding the equipment and
replacing larger, more visually intrusive facilities with smaller, less
visually intrusive facilities.

      (20)   The installation and construction shall begin within 180
calendar days after the facility’s approval or it will expire without
further action by the city.

      (21)   All applicants must secure a letter of credit and ROW
license agreement as set forth in this article.

      (22)   All applicants shall pay the appropriate ROW license fees
as set forth in Apache Junction City Code. Vol. I, Chapter 4, Fees,
Article 4-6, Public Works Fee Schedule, Section 4-6-2, Small Wireless
Facilities Rights-of-Way Fees and Charges.

(Ord. 1453, passed 12-5-2017)

§ 13-4-2 PENALTY.

   Any violation of any provisions adopted in this chapter, shall be
punishable as a class 1 misdemeanor consistent with Apache Junction City
Code, Volume 1, Chapter 1: General, Article 1-1: General, § 1-1-11,
Penalty.

(Ord. 1453, passed 12-5-2017)

APPENDIX A   DESIGN STANDARDS, CONCEPTS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR SMALL
WIRELESS FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency signals and that is used in providing
wireless services.

   ANTENNA MOUNTING BRACKET. The hardware required to secure the antenna
to the pole.

   ANTENNA MOUNTING POST. The vertical post or pipe that the antenna
mounting bracket is mounted to in order for the antenna to be attached
to the pole.

   ANTENNA SHROUD. The three-sided cover that is mounted at the base of
the antenna to conceal the appearance of the cables and wires from the
hand-hole port on the pole to the bottom-fed antenna.

   CANISTER ANTENNA. The canister or cylinder style housing used to
conceal the antenna(s), amplifier(s), radio(s), cables, and wires at the
top of a pole.

   COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. Any and all electronic equipment at the
small wireless facility location that processes and transports
information from the antennas to the wireless provider’s network.

   DOG HOUSE. The plastic or metal attachment to the base of a pole that
covers the transition point of underground cables and wires to the
vertical section of the pole.

   GROUND-MOUNTED EQUIPMENT. Any communications equipment that is
mounted to a separate post or to a foundation on the ground.

   LIGHT EMITTING DIODE. A type of lighting fixture installed on city
streetlight and traffic signal poles.

   LIGHT FIXTURE. The lighting unit or luminaire that provides lighting
during the evening hours or during the hours of darkness.

   LUMINAIRE MAST ARM. The horizontal post that attaches the light
fixture to the streetlight pole or traffic signal pole.

   OMNI-DIRECTIONAL ANTENNA. Also referred to as an “omni-antenna” this
antenna is round in shape, like a pipe, and may be about one (1) inch
diameter up to about six (6) inches diameter.

   OUTSIDE DIAMETER. The points of measurement, using the outer edges of
a pole, pipe or cylinder.

   PANEL ANTENNA. The style of antenna that is rectangular in shape and
with dimensions that are generally four (4) feet to eight (8) feet in
height, by eight (8) inches to twelve (12) inches wide, and four (4)
inches to nine (9) inches deep.

   REMOTE RADIO HEADS /REMOTE RADIO UNITS. The electronic devices that
are used to amplify radio signals so that there is increased performance
(farther distance) of the outgoing radio signal from the antenna.

   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway,
street, sidewalk, alley, or utility easement. RIGHTS-OF-WAY does not
include a federal interstate highway, a state highway or state route
under the jurisdiction of the Arizona Department of Transportation, a
private easement, property that is owned by a special taxing district,
or a utility easement that does not authorize the deployment sought by
the wireless provider.

   SIGHT DISTANCE EASEMENTS. The area of land adjacent to an
intersection, driveway or roadway that has restrictive uses in order to
preserve the view of oncoming or crossing vehicular and pedestrian
traffic by drivers in vehicles attempting to merge with traffic or enter
a roadway.

   SIGHT VISIBILITY TRIANGLES. The traffic engineering and safety
concept that requires clear view by the driver of a vehicle to crossing
traffic at a stop sign, driveway or intersection. In order to achieve
clear visibility of the cross traffic, the land areas in the sight
visibility triangle has specific maximum heights on landscaping,
cabinets, and other potential view obstructions.

   SIGNAL HEAD. The “red, yellow and green” light signals at a
signal-controlled intersection.

   SIGNAL HEAD MAST ARM. The horizontal pole that has the signal heads
mounted to it and attaches to the traffic signal pole.

   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:

      (1)   All antennas are located inside an enclosure of not more
than six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna, that
has exposed elements, the antenna and all of the antenna’s exposed
elements could fit within an imaginary enclosure of not more than six
(6) cubic feet in volume.

      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than twenty-eight (28) cubic feet in volume, or
fifty (50) cubic feet in volume if the equipment was ground-mounted
before the effective date of this section. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of
equipment volume pursuant to this subdivision:

         (a)   An electric meter.

         (b)   Concealment elements.

         (c)   A telecommunications demarcation box.

         (d)   Grounding equipment.

         (e)   A power transfer switch.

         (f)   A cutoff switch.

         (g)   Vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.

   STEALTH AND CONCEALMENT ELEMENTS. The use of shrouds, decorative
elements, design concepts and faux elements so that a small wireless
facility can be designed to blend in with the surrounding streetscape
with minimal to any visual impact.

   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in
part for communications services, electric distribution, lighting or
traffic signals as defined in A.R.S. § 9-591(21). UTILITY POLE does not
include a monopole.

STANDARD DESIGN REQUIREMENTS SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY ON EXISTING
STREETLIGHT.

   The following design standards shall apply, in addition to the Common
Standards Design Concepts, Requirements and Details that is included in
this document, to a small wireless facility (“SWF”) proposed for a
location with an existing city-owned or third party-owned streetlight in
the City of Apache Junction rights-of-way (“ROW”). These design
standards are not exhaustive and the city, as the owner, keeper and
manager of the ROW, retains the right to modify or adjust the
requirements on a case-by-case basis.

   (A)   Pole criteria:

      (1)   Purpose of streetlight pole: the primary purpose of the pole
shall remain as a pole structure supporting a streetlight luminaire and
related streetlight fixtures used to provide lighting to the city ROW.
The attachment of wireless equipment to an existing streetlight pole or
to a replacement pole that impedes this primary purpose will not be
approved.

      (2)   General requirement:

         (a)   A SWF shall be designed to blend in with the surrounding
streetscape with minimal to any visual impact.

         (b)   A replacement pole shall match the City of Apache
Junction standard streetlight pole, as closely as possible, subject to
more specific criteria below.

         (c)   As specified in section 6(N) of the City of Apache
Junction’s Wireless Facilities Standard Term and Conditions, for each
individual pole type or style used to support the wireless equipment,
one spare replacement pole shall be provided by the wireless provider to
city in advance so the pole can be replaced promptly in case of a
knockdown.

         (d)   All plans shall be signed and sealed by a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Arizona.

         (e)   All other details in the City of Apache Junction Street
Light Standards which the City Engineer determines that are applicable.

      (3)   Specific criteria:

         (a)   New or replacement pole height: a new or replacement pole
may be installed if one of the two height requirements is met:

            1.   Up to a ten (10) foot increase, not to exceed fifty
(50) feet total (whichever is less), per A.R.S. § 9-592(1); or

            2.   Up to forty (40) feet above ground level, per A.R.S. §
9-592(J).

         (b)   Overall height of replacement pole.

            1.   The “base” height of an existing streetlight pole shall
be the height of the vertical pole section from the existing grade. The
height of the luminaire mast arm, if higher than the vertical pole
section, shall not be used to determine the new overall height of the
replacement pole.

            2.   If the antennas are the highest vertical element of the
site, then the new overall height of the replacement pole is measured
from the existing grade to the top of the canister, top of the
omni-directional antenna, or the top of the panel antenna.

         (c)   Increase in outside diameter (“OD”) of pole: the
non-tapered replacement pole OD of the base section shall be equal to
the top section, and the OD shall not exceed eight and five-eights
(8-5/8) inches (the pole manufacturing industry standard OD for an 8
inch diameter pole) or a 100% increase in diameter of the original pole,
whichever is less.

         (d)   Luminaire mast arms.

            1.   All luminaire mast arms shall be the same length as the
original luminaire arm, unless the city requires the mast arm to be
different (longer or shorter) based upon the location of the replacement
pole.

            2.   Unless otherwise approved, all luminaire mast arms
shall match the arc (if applicable) and style of the original luminaire
arm.

            3.   The replacement luminaire mast arm shall be at the same
height above the ground as the existing luminaire.

         (e)   Luminaire fixtures.

            1.   All replacement poles shall have the city standard
light-emitting diode (“LED”) light fixture installed.

            2.   All replacement light fixtures shall have a new city
standard photo cell or sensor provided by the wireless provider.

            3.   The replacement light fixture mounting height shall be
at the same mounting height as the existing luminaire, or as directed by
city engineer.

         (f)   Pole foundation.

            1.   All pole foundations shall conform to the city’s
adopted standards and specifications on streetlight design and shall be
modified for wireless communications equipment and cables.

            2.   The city, in its sole discretion, may allow the pole
foundation design to be “worst case” for all soil conditions.

            3.   A separate, one-inch diameter conduit shall be
installed in the pole foundation for the city’s luminaire wire and any
additional city wires or cables. The city’s conduit shall be trimmed to
three (3) inches above the top of the pole foundation.

            4.   The height of the pole foundation shall be two (2)
inches above finished grade. If the pole foundation encroaches into any
portion of the sidewalk, then the pole foundation shall be flush with
the sidewalk.

            5.   Shrouds for the streetlight pole mounting bolts may be
required for the replacement pole.

            6.   City standard is a direct bury pole. If the wireless
provider determines a replacement pole needs to be mounted to a concrete
foundation, (A)(3)(f)1. through 5. shall be strictly followed.

         (g)   Painting of replacement pole.

            1.   If the replacement pole is an unpainted galvanized
pole, the pole shall not be painted or have a finish unless otherwise
specified by the city.

            2.   For powder coated bronze/silver street light poles, the
wireless provider shall replace with same powder coated color and/or
color combination as determined by the City Engineer.

            3.   For Park Green SL-10 style poles (no longer being
installed), the wireless provider shall replace with powder-coated
bronze/silver SL-8 type pole.

         (h)   Painting antennas and mounting equipment.

            1.   All antenna mounting brackets and hardware, antenna
mounting posts, cables, shrouds and other equipment mounted on a new or
replacement unpainted galvanized pole shall be painted Sherwin Williams
“Web Grey” (SW7075) color or equivalent, unless specified otherwise by
the city.

            2.   All antenna mounting brackets and hardware, antenna
mounting posts, cables, shrouds and all other equipment mounted on a
painted new or replacement pole shall be painted a color specified by
the city.

         (i)   Wireless provider shall install pole numbers on each
replacement pole (to match the number on the existing streetlight pole
being replaced) per Apache Junction Street Light Design Manual Standards
that the City Engineer determine are applicable.

STANDARD DESIGN REQUIREMENTS SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY ON TRAFFIC SIGNAL
POLE

   The following design standards shall apply, in addition to the common
standards design concepts, requirements and details included in this
document, to a small wireless facility (“SWF”) proposed for a location
with an existing city-owned traffic signal in the City of Apache
Junction right-of-way (“ROW”). These design standards are not exhaustive
and the city, as the owner and manager of the ROW retains the right to
modify or adjust the requirements on a case-by-case basis.

   (A)   Pole criteria:

      (1)   Purpose of traffic signal pole: the primary purpose of the
traffic signal pole shall remain as a pole structure supporting a
traffic signal and related streetlight fixtures used to provide traffic
control and lighting to the city ROW. The attachment of wireless
equipment to a new or replacement traffic signal pole that impedes this
primary purpose will not be approved.

      (2)   General requirement:

         (a)   A SWF shall be designed to blend in with the surrounding
streetscape with minimal to any visual impact.

         (b)   A replacement pole shall match the City of Apache
Junction standard traffic signal pole, as closely as possible, subject
to more specific criteria below.

         (c)   As specified in section 6(N) of the City of Apache
Junction’s Wireless Facilities Standard Terms and Conditions, for each
individual pole type or style used to support the wireless equipment,
one spare replacement pole shall be provided by wireless provider to
city in advance so the pole can be replaced promptly in case of a
knockdown.

         (d)   All plans shall be signed and sealed by a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Arizona.

         (e)   All other details in the City of Apache Junction Traffic
Signal Design Standards that the City Engineer determines are
applicable.

      (3)   Specific criteria:

         (a)   New or replacement pole height: a new or replacement pole
may be installed if one of the two height requirements is met:

            1.   Up to a ten (10) foot increase, not to exceed fifty
(50) feet total (whichever is less), per A.R.S. § 9-592(1); or

            2.   Up to forty (40) feet above ground level, per A.R.S. §
9-592(J).

         (b)   Overall height of replacement pole: the height of the
replacement pole is measured from grade to the top of the antenna
canister or the top of the panel antennas if the antennas are the
highest elements.

         (c)   Increase in outside diameter (“OD”) of pole.

            1.   If the replacement pole is a taper design, the diameter
of the base section of the replacement pole OD shall not exceed twelve
(12) inches or a 100% increase in the OD of the base section, whichever
is less.

            2.   If the replacement pole is non-tapered, then the
diameter of the base section shall be equal to the top section and the
OD shall not exceed twelve (12) inches or a 100% increase, whichever is
less.

         (d)   Signal head mast arms.

            1.   The traffic signal head mast arms shall be the same
length as the original signal head mast arm unless the City requires the
mast arm to be different (longer or shorter) based upon the location of
the replacement pole.

            2.   All signal head mast arms shall match the arc (if
applicable) and style of the original signal head mast arm.

         (e)   Luminaire mast arms.

            1.   All luminaire mast arms shall be the same length as the
original luminaire arm unless the city requires the mast arm to be
different (longer or shorter) based upon the location of the replacement
pole.

            2.   All luminaire mast arms shall match the arc (if
applicable) and style of the original luminaire arm.

         (f)   Signal heads.

            1.   All existing signal heads shall be replaced, at no cost
to city, with new light-emitting diode (“LED”) signal heads, per City of
Apache Junction Traffic Signal Design Standards that the City Engineer
determines apply.

            2.   All signal heads shall be procured from a city approved
signal heads supplier or manufacturer.

            3.   The replacement signal heads mounting height shall be
at the same mounting height as the existing signal head, or as directed
by City Engineer.

         (g)   Luminaire fixtures.

            1.   All replacement poles shall have the city standard LED
light fixture installed.

            2.   All replacement light fixture shall have a new
photo-cell or sensor installed to city standard.

            3.   The replacement light fixture mounting height shall be
at the same mounting height as the existing luminaire, or as directed by
City Engineer.

         (h)   Other city elements on signal mast arm or pole: all
existing emergency signal detection units, video detection cameras,
video cameras, cross walk service buttons, cross walk signals, and any
other pedestrian or traffic devices shall be replaced with new units by
wireless provider and installed at no cost to the city. All equipment
shall be procured from a list of city approved suppliers.

         (i)   Signs and other miscellaneous: all street name plates or
signs, directional signs and any other city approved signs shall be
replaced with new signs at no cost to the city. All signs and
attachments shall be procured from a list of city approved suppliers.

         (j)   Traffic signal pole foundation.

            1.   All pole foundations shall conform to the city’s
standards and specifications on traffic signal pole design and shall be
modified for wireless communications equipment, hand holes and cables.

            2.   The wireless provider shall install a three (3) inch
diameter OD conduit in the pole foundation for the city’s cables and
wires for the signal heads, luminaire and devices on the signal mast arm
and luminaire mast arm. The city’s conduit shall be trimmed to three (3)
inches above the top of the pole foundation.

            3.   In addition to the conduits for the city’s use inside
the pole, the wireless provider shall install one of the two options for
its cables and wires:

               a.    One, six (6) inch diameter OD conduit in the pole
foundation; or

               b.    Two, four (4) inch diameter OD conduits in the pole
foundation. The length of the conduit shall extend from the pole
foundation to six (6) inches above the signal head mast arm.

            4.   Pole foundation - height above ground level.

               a.   If the pole foundation is in a landscaped or
unimproved area, the height of the caisson shall be two (2) inches above
finished grade. However, if the pole foundation is adjacent to or within
a sidewalk or ramp, the height of the pole foundation shall be flush
with the surface of the immediate area.

               b.    Shrouds for the traffic signal pole mounting bolts
may be required for the replacement pole.

         (k)   Painting of pole, antennas and mounting equipment.

            1.    Specifications on paint color and painting process are
provided in the City of Apache Junction Traffic Signal Design Standards
that the City Engineer determines apply.

            2.   For powder-coated traffic signal poles, the wireless
provider shall replace with same powder-coated color and/or color
combination.

         (l)   Construction of traffic signal: the installation work of
the replacement traffic signal pole, including mast arms, signal heads
and devices, must be performed by an Arizona licensed traffic signal
contractor with a minimum of five (5) years of experience installing
traffic signals.

STANDARD DESIGN REQUIREMENTS SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY ON EXISTING UTILITY
POLE

   The following design standards shall apply, in addition to the common
standards design concepts, requirements and details that is included in
this document, to a small wireless facility (“SWF”) proposed for a
location with an existing third party-owned utility pole in the City of
Apache Junction rights-of-way (“ROW”). These design standards are not
exhaustive and the city, as the owner, keeper and manager of the ROW
retains the right to modify or adjust the requirements on a case-by-case
basis.

   (A)   Pole criteria:

      (1)   Purpose of utility pole: the primary purpose of the pole
shall remain as a pole structure supporting a cables and wires used to
provide communications services and electric distribution in the city
ROW. The attachment of wireless equipment to an existing third
party-owned utility pole that impedes this primary purpose will not be
approved.

      (2)   General requirement:

         (a)   An SWF shall be designed to blend in with the surrounding
streetscape with minimal to any visual impact.

         (b)   A SWF mounted on an existing third party-owned utility
pole is subject to more specific criteria below.

         (c)   All plans shall be signed and sealed by a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Arizona.

      (3)   Specific criteria:

         (a)   Replacement pole height: a replacement pole may be
installed if one of the two height requirements is met:

            1.   Up to a ten (10) foot increase, not to exceed fifty
(50) feet total (whichever is less), per A.R.S. § 9-592(1); or

            2.   Up to forty (40) feet above ground level, per A.R.S. §
9-592(J).

         (b)   Overall height of replacement utility pole.

            1.   The “base” height of an existing utility pole shall be
the height of the vertical pole section from the existing grade.

            2.   If the antennas are the highest vertical element of the
site, then the new overall height of the replacement pole is measured
from the existing grade to the top of the canister or the top of the
panel antenna.

         (c)   Use of existing pole-wood.

            1.   An existing wood pole used for a SWF shall have the
antennas contained within an eighteen (18) inch OD canister mounted at
the top of the pole.

            2.   Unless otherwise approved, the cables and wires from
the base of the pole to the antennas shall be installed in a conduit or
cable chase outside of the pole, facing away from the street or away
from on-coming traffic.

            3.   If a “dog house” (see Exhibit C) is required as a
transition point connecting the underground cables and wires from the
ground mounted equipment to the pole, the city shall provide the maximum
size, dimension and shape of the dog house on a case-by-case basis.

         (d)   Use of existing pole-metal.

            1.   An existing metal pole used for a SWF shall have the
antennas contained within an eighteen (18) inch OD canister mounted at
the top of the pole.

            2.   Panel antennas on a metal pole shall have the same “RAD
center” (center of radiation) so the antennas will be at the same height
on the pole.

            3.   The cables and wires from the base of the pole to the
antennas shall be installed in a conduit or cable chase on the outside
of the pole, facing away from the street or away from on-coming traffic.

            4.   If a “dog house” (see Exhibit C) is required as a
transition point connecting the underground cables and wires from the
ground mounted equipment to the pole, the city shall provide the maximum
size, dimension and shape of the dog house on a case-by-case basis.

         (e)   Painting of pole and dog house.

            1.   If the replacement pole is an unpainted galvanized
pole, the pole shall not be painted or have a finish unless otherwise
specified by the city.

            2.   If the existing or replacement pole includes a dog
house for the transition of the cables and wires to the pole, the dog
house shall be painted the same color as the pole or a color specified
by the city.

         (f)   Painting antennas and mounting equipment.

            1.   All antenna mounting brackets and hardware, antenna
mounting posts, cables, shrouds and other equipment mounted on a new or
replacement unpainted galvanized pole shall be painted Sherwin Williams
“Web Grey” (SW7075) color or equivalent, unless specified otherwise by
the city.

            2.   All antenna mounting brackets and hardware, antenna
mounting posts, cables, shrouds and all other equipment mounted on a
painted new or replacement pole shall be painted a color specified by
the city.

            3.   If the antenna is mounted on a wood pole, the color of
the antenna, antenna canister, mounting brackets and posts, shrouds and
cable chases shall be painted a color specified by the city that will
closely match the color of the wood.

         (g)   Ground-mounted equipment: the city may require the
ground-mounted wireless equipment to be screened or concealed to reduce
the visual impact to the surrounding area. The screening or concealment
shall take into account the location of the site, the use of the
immediate area, and the existing aesthetic elements surrounding the
site.

STANDARD DESIGN REQUIREMENTS SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY ON NEW POLES IN
RIGHTS-OF-WAY

   (A)   The following design standards, in addition to the common
standards design concepts, requirements and details that are included in
this document, shall apply to a small wireless facility (“SWF”) that a
wireless provider may install in the rights-of-way (“ROW”) that is not
either: 1) a replacement pole for an existing streetlight, or 2) a
replacement pole for an existing traffic signal.

   (B)   A new wireless support structure, including a monopole that is
up to forty (40) inches in outside diameter (“OD”), shall incorporate
the highest level of stealth and concealment of the antennas and
wireless equipment in order to minimize the visual impact of the site to
the public.

   (C)   Pole criteria:

      (1)   Purpose of wireless support structure: the sole purpose of a
new vertical element or wireless support structure is to attach antennas
for the provision of wireless services by a wireless provider in the
city’s ROW.

      (2)   General requirement:

         (a)   A new wireless support structure shall be designed to
minimize the visual and aesthetic impact of the new vertical element and
associated equipment upon the look, feel, theme, and use of the
surrounding area.

         (b)   A SWF shall be designed to blend in with the surrounding
streetscape with minimal to any visual impact.

         (c)   The new wireless support structure shall be
architecturally integrated and compatible with the use of the
surrounding area.

         (d)   All plans shall be signed and sealed by a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Arizona.

      (3)   Specific criteria:

         (a)   New pole height: a new wireless support structure may be
installed if one of the two height requirements are met, see A.R.S. §
9-592(1) and A.R.S.§ 9-592(J):

            1.   Up to a ten (10) foot increase, not to exceed fifty
(50) feet total (whichever is less), per A.R.S. § 9-592(1); or

            2.   Up to forty (40) feet above ground level, per A.R.S. §
9-592(J).

         (b)   Overall height of new pole: the height of the new
wireless support structure is measured from grade to top of the antenna
canister, or the top of the panel antenna if the antennas are the
highest elements of the site. Otherwise, the measured heightshall befrom
existing grade to the highest point of the wireless support structure.

         (c)   Outside diameter of monopole: the maximum outside
diameter of a monopole, as defined in A.R.S. § 9-591(13), shall not
exceed forty (40) inches.

         (d)   Stealth and concealment elements: as part of the stealth
and concealment elements of the wireless support structure, the city may
require the wireless provider to install street name plates, directional
signs, and other decorative signs or artistic elements on the structure.

            1.   The wireless provider is solely responsible for the
cost of all stealth and concealment elements and the installation of
other elements required by the city.

            2.   The wireless provider is responsible for the
performance of and any costs incurred for regular upkeep, maintenance
and replacement (if necessary) of these stealth and concealment
elements.

         (e)   Architectural integration with surrounding area.

            1.   The new wireless support structure shall be designed in
consultation with various internal city stakeholders and may include
external stakeholders.

            2.   No new wireless support structure shall be constructed
without the consent and simple majority approval of the key
stakeholders.

            3.   The city may require the new wireless support structure
to be constructed of a specific material that will enhance the stealth
and concealment of the site.

         (f)   Pole foundation.

            1.   The pole foundation for the wireless support structure,
if required, shall conform to structural engineering standards
acceptable to the city, with design modifications for wireless
communications equipment and cables.

            2.   The height of the pole foundation shall be two (2)
inches above finished grade. However, if the pole foundation is adjacent
to or within a sidewalk or ramp, the height of the pole foundation shall
be flush with the surface of the immediate area.

            3.   Shrouds for the pole mounting bolts may be required.

         (g)   Painting of wireless support structure, antennas and
mounting equipment.

            1.   The city shall identify the paint colors, location of
paint and any decorative work that may be painted onto the new wireless
support structure.

            2.   The city shall identify the paint colors for the
antennas, antenna mounting brackets and posts, antenna shrouds, and
cables.

            3.   The city may require the new wireless support structure
to be painted using a powder-coat process.

         (h)   Ground-mounted equipment: the city may require the
ground-mounted wireless equipment to be screened or concealed to reduce
the visual impact to the surrounding area. The screening or concealment
shall take into account the location of the site, the use of the
immediate area, and the existing aesthetic elements surrounding the
site.

STANDARD DESIGN REQUIREMENTS

COMMON STANDARD DESIGN CONCEPTS REQUIREMENTS AND DETAILS FOR SMALL
WIRELESS IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY.

   The following standard design requirements shall be applied to all
new small wireless facilities in the City’s rights-of-way (“ROW”),
whether for a small wireless facility to be installed on an existing or
replacement streetlight pole, an existing or replacement traffic signal
pole, an existing or replacement utility pole, or on an existing or new
wireless support structure.

   (A)   Pole design and installation.

      (1)   Replacement pole clearances - underground utilities: 

         (a)   All ground-mounted electrical equipment shall maintain
minimum horizontal clearance from underground utilities.

            1.   Clearance from water lines shall be at least six (6)
feet.

            2.   Clearance from sewer lines shall be at least six (6)
feet.

            3.   Clearance from telecommunications shall be at least one
(1) foot.

            4.   Clearance from cable television lines shall be at least
one (1) foot.

            5.   Clearance from all other underground infrastructure
shall be at least six (6) feet.

         (b)   All of the above distances shall be verified by the
wireless provider and communicated to the City Engineer in a form as
he/she so directs.

         (c)   The city, in its sole discretion, may grant an exception,
upon approval by the City Engineer, from these horizontal separation
distances on a case-by-case basis. The approval of an exception is
dependent factors specific to the site.

         (d)   In the case where there is an issue with horizontal
separation from other underground utilities, the wireless provider may
elect to work with the impacted utility to have lines, pipes or property
moved so that minimum clearance is achieved. All relocation of city
owned or a privately-owned facility shall be at the sole expense of the
wireless provider.

      (2)   Calculating the base height of an existing pole: the base
height, from which the calculation of the “increase in pole height” is
referenced for determining the overall pole height, shall be calculated
as follows:

         (a)   Streetlight pole (see Exhibit A1 andA2).

            1.   A streetlight with a separate luminaire mast arm
mounted to the vertical pole shall use the top of the vertical pole as
the base height.

            2.   A streetlight, with the luminaire mast arm integrated
(e.g. telescopic style pole) into the top vertical section of the pole,
shall use the point on the pole where the mast arm is connected plus
twenty-four (24) inches as the base height.

         (b)   Traffic signal pole (see Exhibit B): A traffic signal
pole with a luminaire mast arm that is mounted above the signal head
mast arm to the pole shall use the top of the vertical portion of the
pole as the base height.

      (3)   Replacement pole clearance - original streetlight pole or
traffic signal pole: the minimum distance of the replacement pole from
the original pole location shall be sixty (60) inches or more so that
construction can occur safely. The city may change this minimum distance
on a case-by-case basis.

      (4)   Replacement pole clearances - sidewalks: the new or
replacement pole shall maintain twelve (12) inch minimum clearance
distance from sidewalks. The city, in its sole discretion, may increase
that minimum clearance on a case-by-case basis to ensure the safe use of
the sidewalk and adjacent area. The wireless provider shall verify this
dimension in a form as directed by the City Engineer.

      (5)   Sight distance easements (“SDE”) and sight visibility
triangles (“SVT”): all new and replacement poles shall be installed in a
location that does not impair or interfere with SDE or SVT safety
requirements.

      (6)   Cables, wires and jumpers.

         (a)   All cables for the wireless equipment and antennas -
except where such cables or wires attach to the ports in the antenna -
shall be located inside a conduit, inside the caisson and pole. There
shall not be any “dog house” or externally visible conduit or entry
point of the cables.

         (b)   All electrical wires for the streetlight luminaire,
traffic signal heads, and any city device on the pole shall be new and
connected to the existing power source.

      (7)   Hand-holes.

         (a)   All hand-hole locations shall be called out on the plans.

         (b)   All hand-holes near antennas shall have the top of the
hand-hole no lower than the bottom height of the antennas.

         (c)   The bottom of the hand-hole should not exceed six (6)
inches below the bottom of the antenna.

      (8)   Wireless facility identification information.

         (a)   A four (4) inch by six (6) inch radio frequency safety
notice may be mounted no less than twenty-four (24) inches from the
bottom of the antenna, facing away from traffic.

         (b)   The wireless provider may place a discreet site
identification or number. The size, color and location of this
identifier shall be determined by the city.

         (c)   No wireless provider signs may be placed on a
streetlight, traffic signal pole, wireless support structure, or a new
or replacement pole except to the extent required by local, state or
federal law or regulations.

      (9)   Interference with city wireless network: the city has
certain wireless devices in a network that connects traffic signals,
community centers, water sites, and other locations for the city’s
proprietary use. The selection of a location for a wireless site shall
consider the potential interference of the city’s wireless network with
RF from a wireless provider’s proposed site.

      (10)   Cable chase and dog houses: the city, in its sole
discretion, shall determine if an exterior cable chase and dog house are
aesthetically compatible with the pole and immediate area. The materials
and paint color of the cable chase and dog house shall be determined on
a case-by-case basis.

   (B)   Removal of original pole, equipment and pole foundation.

      (1)   Removal of original signal pole, mast arm, signal heads and
luminaire.

         (a)   The city shall determine what original components, (e.g.,
original pole, mast arm, signal heads and luminaire, and the like) shall
be delivered at no cost to the city, to the city’s Public Works
Department by the wireless provider.

         (b)   If the city accepts some of the original components, then
only those components shall be delivered by the wireless provider to the
City Public Works Department and the remaining components shall be
discarded by the wireless provider.

      (2)   Removal of original streetlight or traffic signal pole
foundation: the concrete pole foundation for the original streetlight or
traffic signal pole shall be removed by the wireless provider as
instructed by the City:

         (a)   Partial removal: the original pole foundation shall be
taken back to a level that is twelve (12) inches below existing grade
and covered with four (4) inches of one-half (½") inch to three (3/4")
quarter inch rock materials. The remaining eight (8) inches shall be
native soil.

         (b)   Complete removal: if the entire original pole foundation
must be removed, then all materials (concrete, rebar, metals, bolts,
etc.) shall be removed. The city’s Inspector shall determine, on a
case-by-case basis, the type of backfill material and compaction
required - ranging from native soil that is compacted to a half (½) sack
slurry for the entire depth, or a combination of native soil and slurry.

   (C)   Antennas, RRH/RRU, cables and mounting on pole.

      (1)   General requirement: all antennas shall be installed in a
manner that minimizesthevisual impacttothegeneralpublic.
Allworkshallbeperformed in a professional manner that is consistent with
the highest standard of workmanship.

      (2)   Specific criteria:

         (a)   Antenna mounting posts and brackets.

            1.   All panel antennas shall be mounted directly to the
pole or onto a mounting pole so that the distance from the “face” of the
streetlight pole to the back of the antenna does not exceed nine (9)
inches.

            2.   All mounting posts shall be trimmed so that the poles
do not extend higher than the top of the antenna or protrude lower than
the antenna unless necessary to install the shroud.

            3.   All pole attached wireless equipment must be a minimum
ten (10) feet from the sidewalk elevation.

            4.   All of the above dimensions shall be confirmed by the
wireless provider in a form as directed by the City Engineer.

         (b)   Panel antennas.

            1.   All panel antennas for a small cell site shall fit
within an imaginary enclosure of not more than six (6) cubic feet in
volume in accordance with A.R.S. § 9-591(19)(a). (NOTE: This volume does
not include antenna cable shrouds when required.)

            2.   All panel antennas with exposed cables from the bottom
of the antenna shall have a shroud installed on the antenna or antenna
mounting posts to conceal the cables, (see Exhibits D1 and D2).

               a.   The type of shroud may be a forty-five (45) degree
angle (away from the bottom of the antenna; toward the pole) or a ninety
(90) degree angle (parallel to the bottom of the antenna) depending on
the location of the site.

               b.   The shroud shall extend from the bottom of the
antenna to two (2) inches below the bottom of the nearest hand-hole.

         (c)   Canister antennas.

            1.   All canister antennas shall fit within an imaginary
enclosure of not more than six (6) cubic feet in volume. (Note: This
volume does not include the canister as it is a stealth device and not
the antenna).

            2.   The canister shall be no larger than eighteen (18)
inches in diameter OD.

            3.   All canister antennas shall be located in a canister
that is mounted to a base plate at the top of the vertical section of
the replacement pole.

            4.   All cables protruding from the canister shall be
concealed within the canister or by a shroud at the point where the
canister is mounted to the base plate.

         (d)   Remote radio heads (“RRH”)/ remote radio units (“RRU”):
Under A.R.S. § 9-591(19)(a), the RRH/RRU is not considered part of the
antenna. If allowed, the RRH/RRU shall be calculated as part of “all
other wireless equipment associated with this facility...” in A.R.S. §
9-591(19) (b) that is subject to the twenty-eight (28) cubic feet
maximum size for small cell sites.

            1.   On a case-by-case basis, the city in its sole
discretion and - upon reviewing the landscape in the immediate
surrounding area, the location of the pole, and stealth options, may
allow a site to have an RRH/RRU installed on the pole.

   (D)   Ground-mounted equipment:

      (1)   General requirement: all ground-mounted equipment shall be
installed in a manner that minimizes the visual and ingress/egress
impact to the general public. All work shall be performed in a
professional manner that is consistent with the highest standards of
workmanship.

      (2)   Specific criteria:

         (a)   Sight distance easements (“SDE”) and sight visibility
triangles (“SVT”) all ground-based wireless equipment shall be installed
in a location that does not impair or interfere with SDE or SVT safety
requirements. To ensure proper sight distance, all City of Apache
Junction Standard Details that the City Engineer determines shall apply.

         (b)   Ground equipment location - generally: all ground-based
wireless equipment, including but not limited to equipment cabinets or
power pedestals, shall be placed as far as practical to the back of the
ROW while maintaining at least three (3) feet of ingress/egress in the
ROW or public utility easement (“PUE”) around the equipment.

         (c)   Ground equipment clearances-underground utilities.

            1.   All ground-mounted electrical equipment shall maintain
minimum horizontal clearance from below-ground utilities:

               a.    Clearance from water lines shall be at least six
(6) feet.

               b.    Clearance from sewer lines shall be at least six
(6) feet.

               c.    Clearance from telecommunications shall be at least
one (1) foot.

               d.    Clearance from cable television lines shall be at
least one (1) foot.

               e.    Clearance from all other underground infrastructure
shall be at least six (6) feet.

            2.   All of the above dimensions shall be confirmed by the
wireless provider in a form as directed by the City Engineer.

            3.   The city, in its sole discretion, may grant an
exception upon approval from the city engineer, from these horizontal
separation distances on a case-by-case basis. The approval of an
exception is dependent on factors specific to the site.

            4.   In the case where there is an issue with horizontal
separation from other underground utilities, the wireless provider may
elect to work with the impacted utility to have its lines, pipes or
property moved so that minimum clearance is achieved. All relocation
work of city-owned or a privately-owned utility shall be at the sole
expense of the wireless provider.

         (d)   Ground equipment clearance - sidewalks: the ground
equipment shall maintain a minimum twelve (12) inch clearance distance
from sidewalks. The city, in its sole discretion, may increase the
minimum clearance on a case-by-case basis to ensure the safe use of the
sidewalk and adjacent area.

         (e)   Compliance with height requirements: evidence or
documentation that, where the above-ground structure is over thirty-six
(36) inches in height, given its proposed location, the structure will
comply or be in compliance with applicable state and City of Apache
Junction planning and zoning ordinances.

         (f)   Screening of ground equipment: the city, in its sole
discretion, may require the ground-mounted equipment to be screened; the
type of screening materials and design will be addressed on a
case-by-case basis.

            1.   In cases when screening is not required, the City may
specify the paint color of the ground-mounted equipment.

         (g)   Decals and labels.

            1.   All equipment manufacturers’ decals, logos and other
identification information shall be removed unless required for warranty
purposes.

            2.   The wireless provider of the site may place an
“emergency contact” decal or emblem to the ground equipment.

            3.   The ground-mounted equipment shall not have any
flashing lights, sirens or regular noise other than a cooling fan that
may run intermittently.

         (h)   Equipment cabinets on residential property.

            1.   Residential single-family lot: the wireless equipment
and ancillary equipment listed in A.R.S. § 9-591(19)(b) shall not exceed
thirty-six (36) inches in height in the front yard of a residential
single-family zoned property.

            2.    Air-conditioning units: unless otherwise specified by
city, a wireless equipment cabinet with air-conditioning (not a fan
only) shall be enclosed by walls and setback a minimum of fifteen (15)
feet from lots where the existing or planned primary use is a
residential single-family dwelling.

         (i)   Electric company meter.

            1.   All electric company meters shall be installed in the
ROW or PUE. The location of the meter equipment shall have minimum
ingress and egress clearance from private property lines and driveways.

            2.   All electric company meters shall maintain minimum
clearance from above-ground utility cabinets and below-ground utilities.

            3.   All electric company meters shall be installed in a
location that does not impair or interfere with the SDE or SVT safety
requirements of the city.

            4.   The electric company meters shall be screened or
contained within a “Myers-type” or “Milbank-type” pedestal cabinet that
is painted to match the ground equipment or as specified by the city,
(see Exhibit E)

            5.   In the case where screening is not required, the city
may specify the paint color of the electric company meter cabinet on a
case-by-case basis.

For questions regarding these design standards, concepts and
requirements contact:

City Engineer

575 East Baseline Avenue

Apache Junction, AZ 85119

480-982-1055

Exhibit A1

Calculation Points for Height of an Existing Streetlight with Separate
Luminaire Mast Arm

[]

 

Exhibit A2

Calculation Points for Height of an Existing Streetlight with Integrated
Luminaire Mast Arm

[]

 

Exhibit B

Calculation Points for Height of Existing Traffic Signal Pole

[]

 

Exhibit C

Dog House - Cable Transition from Underground to Electric Utility Pole

[]

 

Exhibit D1

Antenna Shrouds-45 Degrees

[]

 

Exhibit D2

Antenna Shrouds-90 Degrees

[]

 

Exhibit E

Examples of Electrical Meter Pedestals - “Myers” or “Milbank” Style

[]

 

(Ord. 1453, passed 12-5-2017)

APPENDIX B   WIRELESS FACILITIES STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS

The Wireless Facilities Standard Terms and Conditions (“Standard Terms”)
are made by the City of Apache Junction, an Arizona municipal
corporation (“city”).

STANDARD RECITALS

   (A)   Various laws (the “telecommunications laws”) authorize city to
regulate its streets, alleys and public utility easements, and to grant,
renew, deny, amend and terminate a licenses for a telecommunication
provider (“provider”) and otherwise regulate the installation, operation
and maintenance of telecommunications systems. The telecommunications
laws include, without limitation, the following:

      (1)   Apache Junction City Code, Volume I, Chapter 13: Public
Works, Articles 13-3 and 13-4.

      (2)   A.R.S. §§ 9-581 through 9-583, §§ 9-591 through 9-599 and
other state and federal statutes.

      (3)   The Constitution of the State of Arizona.

      (4)   Other applicable federal, state and local laws, codes, rules
and regulations.

      (5)   City’s police powers, its authority over public
rights-of-way (“ROW”), and its other governmental powers and authority.

   (B)   City owns public street and alley ROW and public utility
easements within the boundaries of the City of Apache Junction that are
designated for use by utility companies for installation, operation and
repair of water, electrical and other utilities pursuant to licenses or
other agreements between utility companies and city (collectively the
“ROW”).

   (C)   City anticipates that one or more providers may desire to
locate antennas and immediately related equipment at various sites
within the ROW.

   (D)   The standard terms become effective as to each site as they are
incorporated in the Rights-of-Way Antenna License Agreement
(“Agreement”) by reference. Except as otherwise stated, each Agreement
stands on its own.

   (E)   The purpose of these standard terms is to promote uniformity in
the Agreements and to streamline the preparation and administration of
the Agreement.

   (F)   Because city’s existing streetlight poles and traffic signed
poles are not designed to safely support the additional weight and
stress of wireless facilities, Providers shall be required to provide
poles designed to support these facilities to replace existing poles
prior to attaching wireless facilities.

STANDARD TERMS

   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of the standard terms:

      ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency (“RF”) signals and that is used in
providing wireless services.

      BASE USE FEE. The amount that the Provider shall pay to city for
each year of this license for use of city ROW and city-owned pole, as
set out in the current fee schedule.

      COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. Any and all electronic equipment at the
small wireless facility (“SWF”) location that processes and transports
information from the antennas to the provider’s network.

      COMPETING USERS. Entities that own the water pipes, cables and
wires, pavement, and other facilities which may be located within the
ROW. The COMPETING USERS include without limitation, the city, the State
of Arizona and its political subdivisions, the public, and all manner of
utility companies and other existing or future users of the use areas.

      ENCROACHMENT PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to Chapter 13,
Volume I of the Apache Junction City Code that allows the Provider to
perform work in the ROW and to install and operate improvements in the
ROW.

      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.

      FCC RULES. All applicable RF emissions laws and regulations.

      FCC OET BULLETIN 65. The FCC’s Office of Engineering and
Technology Bulletin 65 that includes the FCC RF Exposure Guidelines.

      ORDINARY PERMIT USE FEE. The city’s encroachment permit
application, review and other fees related to the issuance of the
permit.

      PROVIDER. A cable operator, wireless infrastructure provider or
wireless services provider.

      PROVIDER’S IMPROVEMENTS. All improvements installed by the
provider, including, but not limited to: all elements of the wireless
facility, all screening elements, any landscaping plants or materials,
and any other elements provided by the provider in the approved
Agreement.

      RF. Radio frequency.

      RF LETTER. A letter attesting to the Provider’s compliance with
FCC RF exposure guidelines from the Provider’s senior internal engineer.

      RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway,
highway, street, sidewalk, alley, or utility easement. ROW does not
include a federal interstate highway, a state highway or state route
under the jurisdiction of the Department of Transportation, a private
easement, property that is owned by a special taxing district, or a
utility easement that does not authorize the deployment sought by the
Provider.

      SITE DOCUMENTS. The depiction of the use area, schematic plans and
map showing location of the installation of the wireless facility in the
ROW, including but not limited to the title report of the use area,
vicinity map, site plan, elevations, technical specifications and the
cubic feet of the non-antenna wireless equipment.

      SITE LICENSE AGREEMENT. The site specific license that
incorporates the Standard Recitals and the Standard Terms for providers
to install and operate wireless facilities in the city’s ROW (see three
available forms set forth in Exhibits A-1, A-2 and A-3).

      SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of
the following qualifications:

         (a)   All antennas are located inside an enclosure of not more
than six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of the antenna’s exposed elements
could fit within an imaginary enclosure of not more than six (6) cubic
feet in volume.

         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility
is cumulatively not more than twenty-eight (28) cubic feet in volume, or
fifty (50) cubic feet in volume if the equipment was ground mounted
before the effective date of this section. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of
equipment volume pursuant to this subdivision:

            1.   An electric meter.

            2.    Concealment elements.

            3.   A telecommunications demarcation box.

            4.   Grounding equipment.

            5.   A power transfer switch.

            6.   A cutoff switch.

            7.   Vertical cable runs for the connection of power and
other services.

      THIRD PARTY AREAS. The portions of the ROW, such as canal
crossings or other areas that for any reason have limited ROW
dedications or that have regulatory use restrictions imposed by a third
party.

      VIOLATION USE FEE. The types of fees that the city has available
to remedy certain breaches of the Agreement by a provider.

      WIRELESS FACILITY.

         (a)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network,
including both of the following:

            1.   Equipment associated with wireless communications.

            2.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic
cables, regular and backup power supplies and comparable equipment,
regardless of technological configuration.

         (b)   Includes small wireless facilities.

         (c)   Does not include the structure or improvements on, under
or within which the equipment is collocated, wireline backhaul
facilities, coaxial or fiber-optic that is between wireless support
structures or utility poles or coaxial or fiberoptic cable that is
otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or directly associated with, an
antenna.

         (d)   Does not include Wi-Fi radio equipment described in
Section 9-506, Subsection I or microcell equipment described in Section
9-584, Subsection E.

      WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person that is authorized to
provide telecommunications service in this state and that builds or
installs wireless communications transmission equipment, wireless
facilities, utility poles or monopoles but that is not a wireless
service provider. Wireless Infrastructure Provider does not include a
special taxing district.

      WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services that are provided to the public
and that use licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed
location or mobile, using wireless facilities.

      WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person that provides wireless
services. WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER does not include a special taxing
district.

      WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.

         (a)   A freestanding structure, such as a monopole.

         (b)   A tower, either guyed or self-supporting.

         (c)   A sign or billboard.

         (d)   Any other existing or proposed structure designed to
support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities.

         (e)   Does not include a utility pole.

   (B)   Use areas. Upon approval of an antenna site ROW license
agreement (“Agreement”), city grants to provider a license to use the
use areas as follows:

      (1)   Limitations. Notwithstanding anything herein to the
contrary, the use areas include and are limited to only certain areas
that provider is permitted to exclusively use and occupy (“exclusive
areas”) and certain areas that provider is permitted to use on a shared
basis (“shared areas”). The use areas are defined by the boundary plan.

      (2)   Use areas boundary. The use areas is the smallest geometric
shape that includes the exclusive areas and the shared areas. The use
areas excludes other parts of the street parcel and all other land.
Provider shall not occupy or use any other portion of the street parcel
or adjoining lands. This agreement does not allow any use of provider’s
land outside the street parcel. If any portion of provider’s work,
improvement or equipment is to be located on other land, then such work,
improvements and equipment are prohibited unless provider first obtains
from the owner of said land (including city, if applicable) an agreement
allowing such work, improvements and equipment (a “supplemental parcel
agreement”).

      (3)   Exclusive areas. The exclusive areas are limited to the
following, if and as defined by the boundary plan:

         (a)   The land area defined as “enclosure” on the boundary plan
to be used by provider solely for the enclosure housing the electronic
ground equipment shown on the site plan (“enclosure”). Such area is
confined to the actual area occupied by the exterior structure and the
interior of the enclosure. If the boundary plan does not show a clearly
defined and correctly labeled enclosure area, then no enclosure area is
available for provider’s use under an approved agreement and any
enclosure for provider’s use must be located outside the street parcel
and authorized by a supplemental parcel agreement.

         (b)   The area on the pole defined as “antennas” on the
boundary plan to be used by provider solely for mounting the antennas.
Such area is confined to the city approved elevations and locations
actually occupied by the antennas and their supporting brackets. If the
boundary plan does not show a clearly defined and correctly labeled
“antennas” area, then no main antennas area is available for provider’s
use under this agreement and any main antennas for provider’s use must
be located outside the street parcel and authorized by a supplemental
parcel agreement.

      (4)   Shared areas. Shared areas are limited to the following
areas, if and as defined by the boundary plan:

         (a)   A motor vehicle parking space (“parking space”) at the
parking space location described on the boundary plan to be used by
provider solely for parking a service vehicle to service the
communications equipment and for ingress and egress to that parking
space.

         (b)   no temporary construction area is provided by these
standard terms or an approved agreement. Provider must obtain from city
a separate written document giving provider permission to work in the
ROW, as described elsewhere herein.

         (c)   An underground cable route (“signal route”) labeled as
the signal route described on the boundary plan from the enclosure to
the antenna to be used by provider solely for underground RF lines
between the enclosure and the antenna. Notwithstanding the preceding
sentence, the portion of the signal route upon the pole shall not be
underground but shall be within the pole. If the boundary plan does not
show a clearly defined and correctly labeled signal route area, then no
signal route area is available for provider’s use under these Standard
Terms or an approved agreement and any signal route for provider’s use
must be located outside the street parcel and authorized by a
supplemental parcel agreement.

      (5)   Power and telephone service. Nothing herein grants
permission for any portion of the power, telephone or other service
routes, if any. (Use of the public street ROW or public utility
easements for these purposes, if any, is governed by normal city ROW
rules and policies and by the franchise between the city and the
electrical and telephone service providers.)

      (6)   Rights in adjacent land. Provider’s rights are expressly
limited to the real property defined as the “use areas” in this
agreement. Without limitation, in the event any public ROW or other
public or private property at or adjacent to the use areas is owned,
dedicated, abandoned or otherwise acquired, used, improved or disposed
of by city, such property shall not accrue to provider but shall be
city’s only.

      (7)   Variation in area. In the event the Use Areas consist of
more or less than any stated area, Provider’s obligations hereunder
shall not be increased or diminished.

      (8)   Condition of title. Provider shall not have power to amend,
modify, terminate or otherwise change the site documents or create new
site documents. City does not warrant its own or any other person’s
title to or rights to use the use areas or any other property. Provider
shall pay, indemnify, defend and hold harmless city and its agents and
representatives of, from and against any and all claims, demands,
damages, expenses, interest or penalties of any kind or nature
whatsoever, including attorneys’, arbitrators’ and experts’ fees and
court costs that arise from or relate to provider’s non-compliance with
the site documents.

      (9)   Condition of use areas. The use areas are being made
available in an “as is” condition without any express or implied
warranties of any kind, including without limitation any warranties or
representations as to their condition or fitness for any use.

      (10)   No real property interest. Notwithstanding any provision
hereof to the contrary, and notwithstanding any negotiation,
correspondence, course of performance or dealing, or other statements or
acts by or between the parties, Provider’s rights herein are limited to
use and occupation of the use areas for the permitted uses. Provider’s
rights in the use areas are limited to the specific rights created
herein as an approved agreement.

      (11)   Limited rights in use areas. An approved agreement grants
provider no rights to or use of the use areas other than those expressly
granted herein.

      (12)   Reserved right and competing users and activities.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, city specifically
reserves to itself and excludes from an approved agreement a
non-exclusive delegable right (“reserved right”) over the entire use
areas for all manner of real and personal improvements and for streets,
sidewalks, trails, landscaping, utilities and every other land use of
every description. Without limitation:

         (a)   Competing users. Provider accepts the risk that city and
others (“competing users”) may now or in the future install their
facilities in the use areas in locations that make parts of the ROW
unavailable for Provider’s use.

         (b)   Competing activities. Provider accepts the risk that
there may now or in the future exist upon the use areas all manner of
work and improvements upon the use areas (“competing activities”). The
competing activities include without limitation any and all laying
construction, erection, installation, use, operation, repair,
replacement, removal, relocation, raising, lowering, widening,
realigning or other dealing with any or all of the following, whether
above, upon or below the surface of the use areas and whether occasioned
by existing or proposed uses of the ROW or existing or proposed uses of
adjoining or nearby land:

            1.   All manner of streets, alleys, sidewalks, trails, ways,
traffic control devices, subways, tunnels, trains and gates of every
description, and alt manner of other transportation facilities and their
appurtenances.

            2.   All manner of pipes, wires, cables, conduits, sewers,
pumps, valves, switches, conductors, connectors, poles, supports, access
points and guy wires of every description, and all manner of other
utility facilities and their appurtenances.

            3.   All manner of canals, drains, bridges, viaducts,
overpasses, underpasses, culverts, markings, balconies, porches,
overhangs and other encroachments of every description and all manner of
other facilities and their appurtenances.

            4.   All other uses of the ROW that City may permit from
time to time,

         (c)   City’s rights cumulative. All of city’s reserved rights
under various provisions of this site license herein shall be cumulative
to each other.

         (d)   Use priorities. These Standard Terms do not grant to
provider or establish for provider any exclusive rights or priority in
favor of provider to use the use areas. Provider shall not obstruct or
interfere with or prevent any competing user from using the use areas.

         (e)   Regulation. City shall have full authority to regulate
use of the use areas and to resolve competing demands and preferences
regarding use of the use areas and to require provider to cooperate and
participate in implementing such resolutions. Without limitation, city
may take any or all of the following into account in regulating use of
the use areas:

            1.   All timing, public, operational, financial and other
factors affecting existing and future proposals, needs and plans for
competing activities.

            2.   All other factors city may consider relevant, whether
or not mentioned in this agreement.

            3.   Differing regulatory regimes or laws applicable to
claimed rights, public benefits, community needs and all other factors
relating to competing users and competing activities.

         (f)   Communications equipment relocation. Upon one hundred
eighty (180) calendar days notice from city, provider shall temporarily
or

permanently relocate or otherwise modify the communications equipment
relocation (the “relocation work”) as follows:

            1.   Provider shall perform the relocation work at its own
expense when required by city’s city manager or designee.

            2.   The relocation work includes all work determined by
city to be necessary to accommodate competing activities, including
without limitation temporarily or permanently removing, protecting,
supporting, disconnecting or relocating any portion of the
communications equipment.

            3.   City may perform any part of the relocation work that
has not been performed within the allotted time. Provider shall
reimburse city for its actual costs in performing any relocation work.
City has no obligation to move provider’s, city’s or others’ facilities.

            4.   City and not provider shall be entitled to use any of
provider’s facilities that are abandoned in place or that are not
relocated on city’s request.

            5.   All relocation work shall be subject to and comply with
all other provisions of this agreement.

         (g)   Disruption by competing users. Neither city nor any
agent, contractor or employee of city shall be liable to provider, its
customers or third parties for any service disruption or for any other
harm caused them or the communications equipment due to competing users
or competing activities.

         (h)   Emergency disruption by city. City may remove, alter,
tear out, relocate or damage portions of the communications equipment in
the case of fire, disaster, or other emergencies if city’s city manager
or designee deems such action to be reasonably necessary under the
circumstances. In such event, neither city nor any agent, contractor or
employee of city shall be liable to provider or its customers or third
parties for any harm so caused to them or the communications equipment.
When practical, city shall consult with provider in advance to assess
the necessity of such actions and to minimize to the extent practical
under the circumstances damage to and disruption of operation of the
communications equipment. In any event, city shall inform provider after
such actions. Provider’s work to repair or restore the communications
equipment shall be relocation work.

         (i)   Public safety. If the communications equipment or any
other provider equipment, improvements or activities present any
immediate hazard or impediment to the public, to city, to city’s
equipment or facilities, to other improvements or activities within or
without the use areas, or to city’s ability to safely and conveniently
operate the ROW or perform city’s utility, public safety or other public
health, safety and welfare functions, then provider shall immediately
remedy the hazard, comply with city’s requests to secure the street
parcel, and otherwise cooperate with city at no expense to city to
remove any such hazard or impediment. Provider’s work crews shall report
the use areas within four (4) hours of any request by city under this
paragraph (“safety paragraph”).

      (13)   Third party permission. There may be portions of the ROW,
such as canal crossings or other areas that for any reason have limited
ROW dedications or that have regulatory use restrictions imposed by a
third party. Areas subject to such restrictions or regulations by third
parties are referred to as third party areas and communications
equipment may not be built without permission from the third party or
third parties that have property rights or regulatory authority over a
specific third party area. Provider’s right to use any use areas shall
be suspended, but not its obligations with respect thereto, during any
period that a third party permission is not in effect.

   (C)   Term of agreement. The term of each agreement shall be as
follows:

      (1)   Original term. The original term of each agreement shall be
for a period often (10) years commencing on the effective date stated
herein.

      (2)   Extensions. The term of each agreement may be extended as
follows:

         (a)   The term of each agreement may be extended for one (1)
additional ten (10) year period subject to consent by city and provider,
which either may withhold in its sole and absolute discretion.

         (b)   Both city and provider shall be deemed to have elected to
extend unless city or provider, respectively, gives notice to the
contrary to the other at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to the
end of the original term or the current extension.

         (c)   The second term shall begin ten (10) years plus one (1)
calendar day after the initial effective date.

      (3)   Holding over. In any circumstance whereby provider would
remain in possession or occupancy of the use areas after the expiration
of this agreement, (as extended, if applicable), such holding over shall
not be deemed to operate as a renewal or extension of this agreement,
but shall only create a use right from month to month that may be
terminated at any time by city upon thirty (30) calendar days notice to
provider, or by provider upon sixty (60) calendar days notice to city.

      (4)   City’s right to cancel. Notwithstanding anything contained
herein to the contrary, city shall have the unconditional right, with or
without cause, to terminate any agreement for any reason including but
not limited to street widening, ROW abandonment or development that may
impact the location of the site upon one hundred eighty (180) calendar
days notice given at any time after the first one hundred eighty days
(180) calendar days.

      (5)   Provider’s right to cancel. Provider shall have the
unilateral right to terminate any agreement without cause upon thirty
(30) calendar days written notice. Provider has no right to terminate
any time after an event of default by provider has occurred (or an event
has occurred that would become a default after passage of time or giving
of notice).

   (D)   Provider’s payments. Provider shall make payments to city as
follows:

      (1)   Use fee items. Provider shall pay to city each of the
following separate and cumulative amounts (collectively “use fee”):

         (a)   An annual amount (“base use fee”).

         (b)   An amount (“ordinary permit use fee”) based on provider’s
permit review and other costs as set out below.

         (c)   An amount (“violation use fee”) based on certain breaches
by provider of this agreement as set out below.

         (d)   All other amounts required by this agreement.

      (2)   Base use fee amount. The amount of base use fee provider
shall pay to city for each year of this agreement shall be the total of
all applicable fee line items for wireless communications facilities
(including without limitation “antenna base fee” and “ground equipment
fee”, as applicable) as set out in the then current fee schedule as it
may be amended from time to time by city council.

      (3)   Ordinary permit use fee amount. The amount of the ordinary
permit use fee shall be the total amount of all applicable ordinary fees
payable to city for city’s review of plans, issuance of permits, and
inspection of provider’s work upon the use areas (including, without
limitation, encroachment permits) as set out in the then current fee
schedule in Chapter 4 of the Apache Junction City Code, Vol. I as it may
be amended from time to time by city council. The permit use fee for SWF
as defined in A.R.S. § 9-591(19) shall be seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) and the permit use fee for wireless sites under A.R.S. § 9-594
shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).

      (4)   Use fee cumulative. All items of use fee shall be cumulative
and separate from each other.

      (5)   Use fee schedule. Except as specifically provided elsewhere
for violation use fee, provider shall pay all Use Fee on the following
schedule:

         (a)   Provider shall pay base use fee and ordinary permit use
fee at the times and in the amounts specified by city’s normal processes
for base use fee and ordinary permit use fee.

         (b)   All other use fee shall be payable quarterly in arrears
on the last day of the first month of the next calendar quarter. For
example, the violation use fee for the first calendar quarter of a year,
if any, shall be payable on or before April 30th.

      (6)   Letter of credit. The initial letter of credit amount shall
be based upon the provider’s good faith projection of the number of
sites to be constructed within the City of Apache Junction during the
current calendar year. The initial letter of credit shall be received by
the city from a local bank branch within the city limits before any
construction and encroachment permits are issued as follows:

         (a)   The Amount of the letter of credit shall be as follows:
thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) for up to ten (10) wireless sites;
sixty thousand dollars ($60,000.00) for eleven (11) to twenty (20)
wireless sites; one hundred five thousand dollars ($105,000.00) for
twenty one (21) to thirty five (35) wireless sites; one hundred eighty
thousand dollars ($180,000.00) for thirty six (36) to sixty (60)
wireless sites; three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for sixty
one (61) to one hundred (100) wireless sites; four hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($450,000.00) for one hundred one (101) to one hundred
fifty (150) wireless sites; six hundred seventy five thousand dollars
($675,000.00) for one hundred fifty one (151) to two hundred twenty five
(225) wireless sites; one million fifty thousand dollars ($1,050,000.00)
for two hundred twenty six (226) to three hundred fifty (350) wireless
sites; one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000.00) for
three hundred fifty one (351) to five hundred (500) wireless sites; two
million two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($2,250,000.00) for five
hundred one (501) to seven hundred fifty (750) wireless sites; and three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for seven hundred fifty one (751) to one
thousand (1,000) wireless sites. If the number of provider’s wireless
sites is more than one thousand (1,000), the three million dollar
($3,000,000.00) letter of credit shall remain in effect and the letter
of credit for the wireless sites in excess of one thousand sites shall
be calculated using the schedule provided in this subsection.

            1.   The city will determine at least once annually if the
number of provider’s wireless sites that are licensed require that the
letter of credit be upgraded to a higher amount. If city requires a new
letter of credit, it shall provide formal notice in writing to the
provider. The Provider must provide the new letter of credit within
forty-five (45) calendar days of receiving written notice.

         (b)   The letter of credit is a security deposit for provider’s
performance of all of its obligations under these Standard Terms within
the City of Apache Junction.

         (c)   The letter of credit shall meet the requirements listed
on Exhibit B attached hereto.

         (d)   Provider shall provide and maintain the letter of credit
during the entire term of each agreement as follows:

            1.   Provider shall cause the original letter of credit to
be delivered to City Engineer.

            2.   Provider shall pay all costs associated with the letter
of credit, regardless of the reason or manner such costs are required.

            3.   Within ten (10) business days after city gives provider
notice that city has drawn on the letter of credit, provider shall cause
the letter of credit to be replenished to its prior amount.

         (e)   City may draw on the letter of credit upon any event of
default, and in the following circumstances whether or not they are an
event of default:

            1.   Provider fails to cause the letter of credit to be
renewed, extended, increased in amount or otherwise maintained as
required by these Standard Terms.

            2.   Provider fails to make monetary payments as required by
these Standard Terms.

            3.   The issuer of the letter of credit fails to immediately
honor a draft on the letter of credit or otherwise repudiates or fails
to honor the letter of credit.

         (f)   City shall also have such additional rights regarding the
letter of credit as may be provided elsewhere in this agreement.

      (7)   Late Fees. Use fee is deemed paid only when city actually
receives good cash payment. Should any use fee not be paid on or before
the date due, a late fee shall be added to the amount due in the amount
of the greater often percent (10%) of the amount due, or one hundred
dollars ($100.00). Furthermore, any use fee that is not timely paid
shall accrue simple interest at the rate of one and one-half percent
(1.5%) per month from the date the amount first came due until paid.
Provider expressly agrees that the foregoing represent fair and
reasonable estimates by city and provider of city’s costs (such as
accounting, administrative, legal and processing costs, etc..) in the
event of a delay in payment of use fee. City shall have the right to
allocate payments received from provider among provider’s obligations.

      (8)   Use fee amounts cumulative. All amounts payable by provider
hereunder or under any tax, assessment or other existing or future
ordinance, law or other contractor obligations to the City of Apache
Junction or the State of Arizona shall be cumulative and payable in
addition to each other payment required hereunder, and such amounts
shall not be credited toward, substituted for, or setoff against each
other in any manner.

   (E)   Use restrictions. Provider’s use and occupation of the use
areas shall in all respects conform to all and each of the following
cumulative provisions:

      (1)   Permitted uses. Provider shall use the use areas solely for
the permitted uses and shall conduct no other activity at or from the
use areas.

      (2)   Enclosure use. Provider shall use the enclosure solely for
locating utility cabinets and housing the communications equipment used
for the antennas.

      (3)   Small wireless facility. Provider may install a SWF, as
defined in A.R.S. § 14 9-591(19), to be limited to:

         (a)   All antennas, including the antenna’s exposed elements,
are located inside an enclosure of not more than six (6) cubic feet in
volume, and

         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility
is cumulatively not more than twenty-eight (28) cubic feet in volume.

            1.   The following ancillary equipment is not included in
the equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecom
demarcation box, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cutoff
switch, and vertical cable runs.

      (4)   Communications operations restriction. Provider shall not
install, operate, or allow the use of equipment, methodology or
technology that interferes or is likely to interfere with the optimum
effective use or operation of city’s existing or future fire, emergency
or other communications equipment, methodology or technology (i.e.,
voice or other data carrying, receiving or transmitting equipment). If
such interference should occur, Provider shall immediately discontinue
using the equipment, methodology or technology that causes the
interference until provider takes corrective measures to alter the
communications equipment to eliminate such interference. Any such
corrective measures shall be made at no cost to city. Provider shall
give to city notice containing a list of the radio frequencies provider
is using at the use areas and shall give notice to city of any change in
frequencies.

      (5)   Other equipment. Provider shall not disturb or otherwise
interfere with any other antennas or other equipment city may have
already installed or may yet install upon the street parcel.

      (6)   Signs. All signage is prohibited except in compliance with
the following requirements:

         (a)   Provider shall install and thereafter maintain the
following signs and other markings as reasonably determined by city from
time to time:

            1.   All signs and markings required for safe use of the use
areas by city, provider and other persons who may be at the use areas at
any time for any reason.

            2.   Any signage city may request directing parking,
deliveries and other vehicles and other users to comply with this
agreement.

            3.   Warning signs listing only provider’s name, permanent
business address, telephone number, emergency telephone number, and any
information required by law.

         (b)   All signage not expressly allowed by these Standard Terms
is prohibited.

         (c)   The location, size, content and style of each sign shall
be subject to the provisions of the applicable sign ordinance and shall
comply with city’s sign programs as the same may change from time to
time. Provider shall update signs as required to comply with changes in
the applicable sign ordinance and city’s sign programs.

         (d)   Provider shall design, make, install and maintain all
signage in a first class, professional manner without broken panels,
faded or peeling paint or other damage.

         (e)   Provider shall bear all costs pertaining to the erection,
installation, operation, maintenance, replacement and removal of all
signs including, but not limited to, the application for and obtaining
of any required building or other permits regardless of the reason for
any such activity, even if such activity is required by city pursuant to
these Standard Terms.

         (f)   The requirements of this paragraph apply to all signs,
designs, monuments, decals, graphics, posters, banners, markings, and
other manner of signage.

      (7)   Provider’s lighting. Except for security lighting operated
with city’s approval from time to time, provider shall not operate
outdoor lights at the use areas.

      (8)   Noise. Except during construction permitted under this
agreement and for burglar alarms and other safety devices, outdoor loud
speakers, sirens or other devices for making noise are prohibited. All
equipment shall be operated so that sound coming therefrom does not
exceed the ambient noise level at the boundary of the street parcel and
cannot be heard at the closer of i) the exterior boundary of the street
parcel or ii) two hundred feet (200') outside the boundary of the street
parcel. The preceding sentence does not apply to use of normal, properly
maintained construction equipment used as permitted by an approved
agreement, to infrequent use of equipment that is as quiet or quieter
than a typical well maintained gasoline powered passenger automobile, to
use of an air conditioning unit that is no noisier than a typical well
maintained residential air conditioning unit.

      (9)   Limited Access. It is Provider’s and not City’s
responsibility to keep unauthorized persons from accessing the
communications equipment and the exclusive areas.

      (10)   Standards of service. Provider shall operate the use areas
in a first-class manner, and shall keep the use areas attractively
maintained, orderly, clean, neat and tidy at all times. Provider shall
not allow any person or persons in or about the use areas related to
provider’s operations who shall fail to be clean, courteous, efficient
and neat in appearance.

      (11)   Provider’s agent. Provider shall at all times retain
on-call available to city by telephone an active, qualified, competent
and experienced person to supervise all activities upon the use areas
and operation of the communications equipment and who shall be
authorized to represent and act for provider in matters pertaining to
all emergencies and the day-to-day operation of the ROW and all other
matters affecting approved agreement. Provider shall also provide notice
to city of the name, street address, electronic mail address, and
regular and after hours telephone number of a person to handle
provider’s affairs and emergencies at the ROW. Any change shall be given
in writing to City Engineer in the manner stated for notices required
herein.

      (12)   Coordination meetings. Provider shall meet with city and
other ROW users from time to time as requested by city to coordinate and
plan construction on the use areas and all matters affected by these
Standard Terms. Without limitation, provider shall attend city’s
scheduled utility planning meetings.

      (13)   Toxic substances. Provider’s activities upon or about the
use areas shall be subject to the following regarding any hazardous or
toxic substances, waste or materials or any substance now or hereafter
subject to regulation under the Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601, et seq., the Arizona
Hazardous Waste Management Act, A.R.S. §§ 49-901 et seq.,the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901, et seq., the Toxic
Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or any other federal,
state, county, or local law pertaining to hazardous substances, waste or
toxic substances and their reporting requirements (collectively “toxic
substances”):

         (a)   Provider understands the hazards presented to persons,
property and the environment by dealing with toxic substances. City has
made no warranties as to whether the use areas contain actual or
presumed asbestos or other toxic substances.

         (b)   Within twenty-four (24) hours after discovery by provider
of any toxic substances, provider shall report such toxic substances to
city in writing. Within fourteen (14) calendar days thereafter, provider
shall provide city with a written report of the nature and extent of
such toxic substances found by provider.

         (c)   Disturbance of toxic substances. Prior to undertaking any
construction or other significant work, provider shall cause the use
areas to be inspected to prevent disturbance of potential asbestos or
other toxic substances. Prior to any work of any description that bears
a material risk of disturbing potential asbestos or other toxic
substances, provider shall cause the contractor or other person
performing such work to give to city notice by the method described in
these Standard Terms to the effect that the person will inspect for
toxic substances, will not disturb toxic substances, and will indemnify,
defend and hold city harmless against any disturbance in toxic
substances in the course of the contractor’s or other person’s work.
Provider shall cause any on-site or off-site storage, inspection,
treatment, transportation, disposal, handling, or other work involving
toxic substances by provider in connection with the use areas to be
performed by persons, equipment, facilities and other resources who are
at all times properly and lawfully trained, authorized, licensed,
permitted and otherwise qualified to perform such services. Provider
shall promptly deliver to city copies of all reports or other
information regarding toxic substances.

      (14)   Required operation. During the entire term of each
agreement and any renewals or extensions, provider shall actively and
continuously operate the communications equipment twenty-four (24) hours
a day, seven (7) days a week, for the permitted uses. Notwithstanding
anything contained in this paragraph to the contrary, the operation
requirements of this paragraph shall be effective commencing on the
earlier of completion of the project or the completion deadline and
shall continue through the date the agreement terminates or expires for
any reason. In the event of relocation of the communications equipment
or damage to the use areas severe enough that the communications
equipment cannot reasonably be operated during repairs, the operation
requirements of this paragraph shall be suspended during the time
specified by these Standard Terms for accomplishing repair of such
damage to relocation of the Communications Equipment. Provider may
temporarily cease operating the communications equipment for short
periods necessary to test, repair, service or upgrade the communications
equipment.

      (15)   Actions by others. Provider shall be responsible to ensure
compliance with these Standard Terms by all persons using the ROW
through or under provider or these Standard Terms.

   (F)   Provider’s improvements generally. All of provider’s
improvements and other construction work whether or not specifically
described herein upon or related to the use areas (collectively
“provider’s improvements”) shall comply with the following:

      (1)   Provider’s improvements. Provider’s improvements include
without limitation, all modification, replacement, repairs,
installation, construction, grading, structural, utility, lighting,
plumbing, sewer or other alterations, parking or traffic alterations,
removal, demolition or other cumulatively significant construction or
similar work of any description and all installation or alteration of
the communications equipment.

      (2)   General approval process. The general processes, building
permit processes, ROW management policies and similar regulatory
requirements that apply to provider’s improvements are completely
separate from the plans approval processes set forth in these Standard
Terms. Provider’s satisfaction of any requirement set forth these
Standard Terms does not substitute for compliance with any regulatory
requirement. Provider’s satisfaction of any regulatory requirement does
not substitute for compliance with any requirement of these standard
terms. Provider must make all submittals and communications regarding
the requirements of these Standard Terms through the City Engineer and
not through planning, zoning, building safety or other staff. Provider
shall be responsible to directly obtain all necessary permits and
approvals from any and all governmental or other entities having
standing or jurisdiction over the use areas. Provider bears sole
responsibility to comply with all stipulations and conditions that are
required in order to secure such rezoning and other approvals.
Notwithstanding anything in this paragraph, to the extent regulatory
requirements and requirements of these Standard Terms are identical,
compliance with regulatory requirements shall constitute compliance with
these Standard Terms and vice versa.

         (a)   Batching sites for approval. Only sites that do not have
a new or a replacement pole required for the antennas, and do not have
any underground cables, conduit, and foundations, are eligible for batch
processing of the applications.

      (3)   Relationship of plans approval to regulatory processes.
Provider’s submission of plans under these Standard Terms, city’s
approval of plans for purposes of these Standard Terms, and the plans
approval process herein shall be separate and independent of all
development, zoning, design review and other regulatory or similar plans
submittal and approval processes, all of which shall continue to apply
as provided under state law, in addition to the requirements of these
Standard Terms and its approvals. Building permits, zoning clearances,
or any other governmental reviews or actions do not constitute approval
of any plans for purposes of this agreement.

      (4)   City’s fixtures and personal property. Provider shall not
remove, alter or damage in any way any improvements or any personal
property of city upon the use areas without city’s prior written
approval. In all cases, Provider will repair any damage or other
alteration to city’s property caused by provider or its contractors,
employees or agents to as good or better condition than existed before
the damage or alteration.

      (5)   Design requirements. All provider’s improvements shall
comply with the following design requirements:

         (a)   All provider’s improvements shall be contained entirely
within the use areas and without any encroachment or dependence upon any
other property, except for permitted utility service.

         (b)   Any changes to utility facilities shall be strictly
limited to the use areas, shall not affect utilities used by city, and
shall be undertaken by provider at its sole cost and expense.

         (c)   The antennas and other communications equipment shall be
properly designed, installed and maintained so as not to create a risk
of damage to the pole, to persons or property upon or using the street
parcel or city’s other property.

         (d)   To the extent requested by city, provider’s plans shall
include a description of construction methods employed to address
environmental issues affecting or affected by the use areas and protect
other facilities at the street parcel and surrounding properties.

         (e)   All specifications set forth in the City of Apache
Junction Design Standards for Small Wireless Facilities in the ROW
(Exhibit A).

      (6)   Approval required. Provider shall not construct any
provider’s improvements (including work on adjacent public lands, if
applicable) without having first received written plans approval from
city. Such consent requirement shall apply to all improvements,
furnishings, equipment, fixtures, paint, wall treatments, utilities of
every description, communications cabling and other construction work of
any description as described in all plans heretofore or hereafter
delivered by provider to city. Such consent requirement does not apply
to work to the communications equipment confined completely inside the
enclosure and not visible, audible, or otherwise discernible outside the
enclosure.

      (7)   Effect of plans approval. Provider shall submit engineering
and construction plans to the city for review and approval. City’s
approval of plans submitted shall be for purposes of these Standard
Terms only and shall constitute irrevocable approval (but only at the
level of detail of the applicable stage of the review process) of the
matters plainly shown on the plans approved. City shall not reject
subsequent plans to the extent the matter to which city objects was
plainly shown on plans previously approved by city. However, city is not
precluded from objecting to matters not previously approved, changes to
plans, matters not previously clearly disclosed on approved plans, or
refinements or implementation of matters previously approved.

      (8)   Plans required. Provider’s design of all provider’s
improvements shall occur in three stages culminating in final working
construction documents for the provider’s improvements (the “final
plans”). The three stages are, in order of submission and in increasing
order of detail, as follows:

         (a)   Conceptual plans showing the general layout, locations,
elevations, configuration, and capacities of all significant
improvements, topographical features, pedestrian and vehicular ways,
buildings, utilities, and other features significantly affecting the
appearance, design, function or operation of each element of provider’s
improvements.

         (b)   Preliminary plans showing all surface finishes and
treatments, finished elevations, general internal and external design
(including without limitation colors, textures and materials),
mechanical, communications, electrical, plumbing and other utility
systems, building materials, landscaping and all other elements
necessary prior to preparation of final working construction documents
and showing compliance with all requirements of these Standard Terms.
The preliminary plans shall show all detail necessary prior to
preparation of final plans.

         (c)   In addition to the information that city required for
preliminary plans, the final plans shall include a title report for the
use area and the shared use area, engineering design documents for the
pole foundation, pole structural design, and other generally required
engineering specifications for construction drawings or CD plans for
permits.

      (9)   Approval process. The following procedure shall govern
provider’s submission to city of all plans for provider’s improvements,
including any proposed changes by provider to previously approved plans:

         (a)   All plans provider submits under these Standard Terms
shall show design, appearance, capacity, views, and other information
reasonably deemed necessary by city for a complete understanding of the
work proposed, all in detail reasonably deemed appropriate by city for
the level of plans required herein.

         (b)   Provider shall deliver all plans submissions for
non-regulatory approvals required herein directly to City Engineer and
shall clearly label the submissions to indicate that they are submitted
pursuant to the Standard Terms and not for building permits or other
approvals. Each submittal of plans by provider for city’s review shall
include five (5) complete sets of the plans on paper and, if requested,
two (2) copies of the plans in electronic form.

         (c)   All construction plans shall be prepared by qualified
registered professional engineers.

         (d)   City and provider shall endeavor to resolve design and
construction issues to their mutual satisfaction but, in the event of an
impasse for any reason or however arising, in light of city’s ownership
and other uses of the use areas, and as a condition of city’s entering
into an agreement, final decision authority regarding all design and
construction issues shall rest with city.

         (e)   All provider’s improvements shall comply with all
requirements of law, any applicable insurance contracts and these
Standard Terms.

      (10)   Cost of provider improvements. All provider’s improvements
shall be designed and constructed by provider at provider’s sole cost
and expense, including without limitation any alteration or other change
to city’s equipment or other improvements or personal property that may
occur. In no event shall city be obligated to compensate provider in any
manner for any of provider’s improvements or other work provided by
provider during or related to the term of any approved agreement.
Provider shall timely pay for all labor, materials, work, and all
professional and other services related thereto and shall pay, protect,
indemnify, defend and hold harmless city and city’s employees, officers,
contractors and agents against all claims related to such items.
Provider shall bear the cost of all work required from time to time to
cause the use areas and city’s adjoining property (if directly affected
by provider’s work) to comply with local zoning rules, the Americans
with Disabilities Act, building codes and all similar rules, regulations
and other laws if such work is required because of work performed by
provider, by provider’s use of the use areas, or by any exercise of the
rights granted to provider under this site license agreement.

      (11)   Improvement quality. Any and all work performed on the use
areas by provider shall be performed in a workman-like manner meeting or
exceeding the best practices of similar facilities in the phoenix
metropolitan area, and shall be diligently pursued to completion and in
conformance with all building codes and similar rules. All of provider’s
improvements shall be high quality, safe, fire resistant, modern in
design, and attractive in appearance, all as approved by city through
the plans approval processes described in these Standard Terms in
addition to any zoning, building code or other regulatory processes that
may apply.

      (12)    Ownership of provider’s improvements. All provider’s
improvements (including without limitation poles and lights) except the
communications equipment shall be and become part of the real property
of city “brick by brick” as constructed or installed.

      (13)   Damage during work. Upon performing any work upon the ROW,
provider shall simultaneously restore the ROW to its prior condition, as
directed by city and repair any holes, mounting surfaces or other damage
whatsoever to the ROW. Such work shall include revegetation and
appropriate irrigation systems for revegetated areas.

      (14)   Replacement pole. If city approves a provider proposal to
install antennas on a city owned pole, then in addition to the other
requirements, the following shall apply:

         (a)   Provider shall provide and deliver to city a replacement
pole, including mast arm, so that a replacement is immediately available
to city in case the original pole is damaged.

         (b)   If city uses a replacement pole, then provider shall
provide another replacement pole.

         (c)   Upon installation of a replacement pole, the city will
determine if the original pole, mast arm(s), signal head(s), and light
fixture(s) shall be delivered by provider to the city’s streets and
transportation yard or if the provider shall dispose of the original
pole, mast arm, signal head and light fixture.

         (d)   All performance under this paragraph shall be at
provider’s expense. City owns the original pole and all replacement
poles.

      (15)   Coordination with encroachment permit. The street parcel is
located in city’s public street ROW, an approved agreement serves as an
encroachment permit under Chapter 13 of the Apache Junction City Code to
the extent of allowing provider’s improvements to exist upon the street
parcel. Provider shall obtain additional encroachment permits at
provider’s expense as follows:

         (a)   Provider shall perform no construction work in the ROW
without obtaining from city a permit giving permission to work in the
ROW.

         (b)   Provider shall not alter or modify its antennas, wireless
equipment or any improvements without submitting plans or drawings of
the proposed alteration or modification to city and obtaining approval
from City’s Engineer.

         (c)   Provider shall not perform any work on its own antennas
or wireless equipment without first obtaining from City an encroachment
permit giving it permission to work in the ROW.

         (d)   Provider shall not in any way obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular traffic within the ROW without first obtaining from city a
permit giving permission to obstruct traffic.

      (16)   Time for completion. Provider shall diligently and
expeditiously pursue to completion the construction of all approved
provider’s improvements. Provider shall complete initial construction of
the project no later than the completion deadline. Provider shall
complete construction of all of other provider’s improvements no later
than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days of permit issuance unless
city and provider agree to extend this period or a delay is caused by a
lack of commercial power at the site. If city, in its sole examination
of the construction activity at a site, determines that provider has not
substantially performed construction at a site within one hundred eighty
(180) calendar days of the permit issuance date, city may require the
provider to cease construction and resubmit the site for approval.

      (17)   Construction notification. City may establish requirements
for notification of nearby residents and property owners prior to
construction.

      (18)   Work time and manner restrictions. All installation,
construction, maintenance, inspection, repair and other work of any kind
shall be done in a manner that does not disrupt traffic (except in
compliance with appropriate permits) or nearby land uses. Without
limitation, such work shall be done in compliance with applicable city
policies and directions from time to time, taking into account the
various sensitivities of traffic, tourism, events, adjoining land uses,
other ROW uses, and all other needs and concerns that are likely to be
affected by provider’s work.

   (G)   RF safety for city employees. As city’s employees, agents, and
representatives must have uninterrupted and safe access to the ROW and
all structures located thereon, provider must comply with at least one
of the following safety protocols:

      (1)   Participate in a city RF safety program (“city’s safety
program”), enrollment in which shall include:

         (a)   A one-time contribution to the city of two (2) RF
personal monitors, as specified below, for monitoring radio frequency
emissions from provider facilities during the repair and maintenance of
city’s facilities and ROW. The RF personal monitors shall be delivered
to the City Engineer within sixty (60) calendar days of the issuance
date of the first permit for a SWF issued to the provider.

            1.   The RF personal monitor shall be a new manufactured
with full original manufacturer’s warranty NARDA (2271/101) - Nardalert
S3 Personal and Area Monitor or equivalent device that is approved by
the city.

            2.   The provider shall provide for each Nardalert S3
Personal and Area Monitor, a protective silicon or rubberized cover, and
a case to store and carry the device.

         (b)   An annual contribution of two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) for third-party training of city employees who will
work on poles that have a wireless facility and for the ongoing
operation - including the annual recertification training of city
employees, test set calibration, and test set maintenance and repair -
of the city’s safety program (“annual contribution”).

            1.   The first annual contribution, payable to the City of
Apache Junction, shall be delivered or transferred as directed by the
City Engineer within sixty (60) calendar days of the issuance date of
the first permit for a SWF issued to the provider.

            2.   Each annual contribution thereafter shall be made
payable to the City of Apache Junction as directed by the City Engineer
on or before the anniversary date of the issuance date of the first
permit for a SWF issued to the provider.

            3.   On each five (5) year interval of the issuance date of
the first permit to install a SWF in the city, the provider shall
provide the city with one (1) additional RF personal monitor that meets
or exceeds the requirement in Sections (G)(1)(a)1 and (G)(1)(a)2 that
the city must approve prior to purchase.

            4.   Prior to performing any work on a wireless site in the
ROW, the city’s employee will contact the network operations center
(“NOC”) whose information shall be located on the ground equipment or on
the pole. The city’s employee shall identify himself or herself as an
employee of city and needs the RF to be turned off at the site for a
specified period to perform maintenance or repair work at the site. Upon
completion of the work, the city’s employee shall contact the NOC and
inform them that the site may activate the RF signals.

      (2)   Provide access to a “kill switch” for each wireless site
that the city’s employees, agents, or representatives can use to turn
off all power to the provider’s facilities while city’s work is
performed at the location.

      (3)   Within 24 hours of a request, agree to send a technician
with an RF monitor to confirm that all RF emitting equipment has, in
fact, been deactivated, and to install all appropriate lockout tags and
devices.

   (H)   Maintenance and utilities. Except as expressly provided below,
provider shall be solely responsible for all maintenance, repair and
utilities for the use areas during the term of an approved agreement.
Without limitation, provider shall perform the following:

      (1)   Maintenance by city. City has no maintenance or repair
obligations for the communications equipment or other provider’s
improvements.

      (2)   Maintenance by provider. Provider shall at all times repair
and maintain the use areas at provider’s sole expense in a first-class,
sound, clean, safe and attractive manner, meeting or exceeding the
manner of maintenance at first class comparable facilities in the
phoenix metropolitan area, as determined in city’s reasonable
discretion. The preceding sentence does not require provider to repair
or maintain city’s facilities at the license area unless such work is
attributable in whole or in part to provider’s use of the use areas.

      (3)   Utility service. Provider shall contract for and pay all
charges, fees, deposits and other amounts for electricity and telephone
and other data communication service to the use areas at the rates
applicable thereto. Provider shall use no other utilities at the use
areas.

      (4)   Utility interruptions. City is not responsible for any
interruption of utilities to or upon the use areas or other difficulties
related to utilities at the use areas.

      (5)   Right of inspection. City shall be entitled to inspect all
construction, reconstruction or installation work and to make such tests
as it deems necessary to ensure compliance with the terms herein, the
public works code, or other telecommunications laws. All city plans
reviews, inspections, standards and other rights and actions with
relation to provider’s improvements are for city’s sole and exclusive
benefit and neither provider nor any other person shall rely thereon or
have any rights related thereto. The preceding sentence does not prevent
provider from relying on consents, permits or approvals city may grant
based on city’s plans, reviews, and inspections. This right of access is
in addition to access rights for city inspectors or other employees and
officers acting within their legal authority.

      (6)   Construction notification. City may establish requirements
for provider to notify nearby residents prior to construction.

      (7)   Blue stake. Provider shall register with and comply with the
local blue stake program.

   (I)   Breach by provider. Provider shall comply with, perform and do
each obligation required of provider herein and shall cause all persons
using the use areas through or under provider or these Standard Terms to
do the same. Provider’s failure to do so shall be a material breach by
provider of these Standard Terms.

      (1)   Events of default. All site licenses are approved upon the
condition that each and every one of the following events herein shall
be deemed an “event of default” by provider of provider’s material
obligations under these Standard Terms:

         (a)   If provider shall be in arrears in the payment of use fee
and shall not cure such arrearage within ten (10) calendar days after
city has notified provider of such arrearage.

         (b)   If provider shall fail to operate the communications
equipment (except during specific periods expressly excused herein) for
a period of three (3) consecutive days or a total of five (5) calendar
days within any twelve (12) month period.

         (c)   If provider shall fail to maintain any insurance required
under these Standard Terms. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, such
failure shall not be a default if within five (5) business days after
notice from city, provider provides to city the required insurance and
the required evidence thereof. Such insurance must cover the past for a
period adequate that there is no gap in the insurance coverage required
by these Standard Terms.

         (d)   If a pole ROW agreement, pole antenna agreement or
supplemental parcel agreement shall expire or be terminated for any
reason.

         (e)   If provider does not commence and diligently pursue to
completion each required stage of construction of the site within the
times required herein. The times specified for concluding each stage of
required construction have been established far enough in advance, and
have taken into account the likelihood of construction delays, so that
no cure period is provided.

         (f)   If provider shall be the subject of a voluntary or
involuntary bankruptcy, receivership, insolvency or similar proceeding
or if any assignment of any of provider’s or such other person’s
property shall be made for the benefit of creditors or if provider or
such other person dies or is not regularly paying its debts as they come
due (collectively a “provider insolvency”).

         (g)   If the issuer of any letter of credit shall fail for any
reason to timely and fully honor any request by city for funds or other
performance under the instrument and provider fails to cause the issuer
to or some other person to honor the request within ten (10) calendar
days after city notifies provider that such request has not been
honored.

         (h)   If provider shall fail to obtain or maintain any
licenses, permits, or other governmental approvals pertaining to the ROW
or timely pay any taxes pertaining to the ROW and shall not cure such
failure within thirty (30) calendar days.

         (i)   If city shall be exposed to any liability, obligation,
damage, cost, expense, or other claim of any description, whether or not
asserted, unless provider gives immediate notice to city of provider’s
commitment to indemnify, defend and hold city harmless against such
claim provider does in fact promptly commence and continue to indemnify,
defend and hold city harmless against such claim and, provider delivers
to city with said notice bonds or other financial security in city’s
reasonable discretion adequate to assure that provider will indemnify,
defend and hold city harmless against such claim “and adequate to
protect city and the use areas from adverse consequences of such claim.

         (j)   If provider shall fail to meet its obligations under the
RF safety paragraph.

         (k)   If provider shall engage in a pattern of repeated failure
(or neglect) to timely do or perform or observe any provision contained
herein. After city has once given notice of any failure by provider to
comply with its obligations set forth in these Standard Terms, the
following shall constitute a repeated failure by provider to comply with
such provision:

            1.   Another failure to comply with any provision of these
Standard Terms during the following thirty (30) calendar day period.

            2.   Three (3) or more failures to comply with any provision
of these Standard Terms during any ninety (90) calendar day period.

            3.   Six (6) or more failures to comply with any provision
of these Standard Terms during any twelve (12) month period.

         (l)   If Provider shall fail to or neglect to timely and
completely do or perform or observe any other provisions herein and such
failure or neglect shall continue for a period of thirty (30) calendar
days after city has notified provider in writing of such failure or
neglect.

      (2)   City’s remedies. Upon the occurrence of any event of default
or at any time thereafter, city may, at its option and from time to
time, exercise at provider’s expense any or all or any combination of
the following cumulative remedies in any order and repetitively at
city’s option:

         (a)   Terminate any or all site licenses due to provider’s
breach or for any other reason does not terminate provider’s obligations
arising during the time simultaneous with or prior to or the
termination, and in no way terminates any of provider’s liability
related to any breach of these Standard Terms.

         (b)   Pay or perform, for provider’s account, in provider’s
name, and at provider’s expense, any or all payments or performances
required hereunder to be paid or performed by provider.

         (c)   Abate at provider’s expense any violation of these
Standard Terms.

         (d)   Notwithstanding anything under these Standard Terms to
the contrary, unilaterally and without provider’s or any other person’s
consent or approval, draw upon, withdraw or otherwise realize upon or
obtain the value of any letter of credit, escrowed funds, insurance
policies, or other deposits, sureties, bonds Or other funds or security
held by city or pledged or otherwise obligated to city by provider or by
any third party (whether or not specifically mentioned herein) and use
the proceeds for any remedy permitted by these Standard Terms.

         (e)   Require an additional security deposit adequate in city’s
sole discretion to protect city and the ROW.

         (f)   Assert, exercise or otherwise pursue at provider’s
expense any and all other rights or remedies, legal or equitable, to
which city may be entitled, subject only to the limitation set out below
on city’s ability to collect money damages in light of the violation use
fee.

      (3)   Violation use fee. In lieu of certain money damages (the
“inconvenience costs”) set out below, the following shall apply to
provider’s violation of certain limited requirements of these Standard
Terms (the “violation fee provisions”):

         (a)   The inconvenience costs are the money damages that city
suffers in the form of administrative cost and inconvenience, disharmony
among competing users, and general inconvenience in ROW use by city,
competing users and the public when provider fails to comply with the
violation fee provisions.

         (b)   Provider’s failure to comply with violation fee
provisions will result in inconvenience costs in an amount that is and
will be impracticable to determine. Therefore, the parties have agreed
that, in lieu of provider paying to city as damages the actual amount of
the inconvenience costs for violating the violation fee provisions,
provider shall pay violation use fee.

         (c)   Violation use fee is only intended to remedy
inconvenience costs that city suffers because of provider’s breach of
the violation fee provisions. Provider’s payment of violation use fee
does not in any way excuse any breach by provider of these Standard
Terms or limit in any way provider’s obtaining any other legal or
equitable remedy provided by these Standard Terms or otherwise or such
breach. For example, provider’s obligation to pay violation use fee does
not in any way detract from provider’s indemnity and insurance
obligations under these Standard Terms, which shall apply according to
their terms in addition to provider’s obligation to pay violation use
fee.

         (d)   Provider may elect to draw upon the letter of credit to
collect the violation use fee.

         (e)   The violation fee provisions and the amount of the
violation use fee per day or part thereof are as follows:

            1.   The amount of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per day for
provider’s failure to properly restore the public ROW or to correct
related violations of specifications, code, ordinance or standards
within ten (10) business days after city’s notice to correct such
defects. Such violation use fee shall be in addition to any cost the
city may incur to restore the ROW or correct the violation.

            2.   The amount of two hundred fifty ($250.00) per day for
each failure to make provider’s books and records available as required
by this agreement.

            3.   The amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
instance of any other action or non-action by the provider contrary to
these Standard Terms herein, that causes inconvenience costs and that is
not cured after three (3) business days’ notice.

         (f)   Violation use fees shall be assessed as follows:

            1.   If city determines that provider is liable for
violation use fee, then city shall issue to provider a notice of city’s
assessing a violation use fee. The notice shall set forth the nature of
the violation and the amount of the assessment.

            2.   Provider shall pay the violation use fee within ten
(10) calendar days after city’s notice. However, if the violation use
fee amount exceeds five thousand dollars ($5,000), then the following
shall apply:

            3.   Provider shall have thirty (30) calendar days after the
notice to pay the violation use fee or give city notice contesting the
assertion of noncompliance.

            4.   If provider fails to respond to the notice, provider
shall pay the violation use fee. Otherwise, city shall schedule a public
hearing to investigate whether the violation use fee is properly
assessed. City shall provide provider at least ten (10) calendar days
notice of such hearing, which shall specify the time, place and purpose
of the hearing. At the hearing, provider shall be provided an
opportunity to be heard and present evidence. If the result of the
hearing is that provider is liable for violation use fee, then the
violation use fee is due ten (10) calendar days after the hearing
decision is announced.

      (4)   Non-waiver. Provider acknowledges provider’s unconditional
obligation to comply with these standard terms herein. No failure by
city to demand any performance required of provider under these Standard
Terms herein, and no acceptance by city of any imperfect or partial
performances under these Standard Terms herein, shall excuse such
performance or impair in any way city’s ability to insist, prospectively
and retroactively, upon full compliance with these Standard Terms
herein. No acceptance by city of use fee payments or other performances
hereunder shall be deemed a compromise or settlement of any right city
may have for additional, different or further payments or performances
as provided for in these Standard Terms. Any waiver by city of any
breach of condition or covenant herein contained to be kept and
performed by provider shall not be deemed or considered as a continuing
waiver and shall not operate to bar or otherwise prevent city from
declaring a default for any breach or succeeding or continuing breach
either of the same condition or covenant or otherwise. No statement,
bill or notice by city or provider concerning payments or other
performances due hereunder, or failure by city to demand any performance
hereunder, shall excuse provider from compliance with its obligations
nor estop city (or otherwise impair city’s ability) to at any time
correct such notice and/or insist prospectively and retroactively upon
full compliance with this agreement. No waiver of any description
(including any waiver of this sentence or paragraph) shall be effective
against city unless made in writing by a duly authorized representative
of city specifically identifying the particular provision being waived
and specifically stating the scope of the waiver. Provider expressly
disclaims and shall not have the right to rely on any supposed waiver or
other change or modification, whether by word or conduct or otherwise,
not conforming to this paragraph.

      (5)   Reimbursement of city’s expenses. Provider shall pay to city
within thirty (30) calendar days after city’s demand any and all amounts
expended or incurred by city in performing provider’s obligations (upon
provider’s failure to perform the same after notice from city) together
with interest thereon at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from
the date expended or incurred by city.

      (6)   Breach by city. Notwithstanding anything in these Standard
Terms to the contrary, if

city at any time is required to pay to provider any amount or render any
performance, such amount or performance is not due until thirty (30)
calendar days after notice by provider to city that the amount has
become payable or that the performance is due. In the event a cure
cannot be effected during that period, city shall not be in default so
long as city commences cure during the period and diligently prosecutes
the cure to completion provided such cure must be completed within sixty
(60) calendar days after the notice.

      (7)   Right to setoff and credit. In addition to its other rights
and remedies city shall have the right to setoff and credit from time to
time and at any time, any and all amounts due from provider to city,
whether pursuant to these Standard Terms herein or otherwise, against
any sum which may be due from city to provider.

   (J)   Termination. The following provisions shall apply at the
expiration of the term of each site license:

      (1)   Surviving obligations. Expiration or termination of a site
license does not terminate provider’s obligations existing or arising
prior to or simultaneous with, or attributable to, the termination or
events leading to or occurring before termination.

      (2)   Delivery of possession. Provider shall cease using the use
areas of the expired or terminated site license. Provider shall without
demand, peaceably and quietly quit and deliver up the use areas to city
thoroughly cleaned, in good repair with the use areas maintained and
repaired and in as good order and condition, reasonable use and wear
excepted, as the use areas now are or in such better condition as the
use areas may hereafter be placed.

      (3)   Confirmation of termination. Upon expiration or termination
of an agreement for any reason, provider shall provide to city upon
demand recordable disclaimers covering the use areas executed and
acknowledged by provider and by all persons claiming through this
agreement or provider any interest in or right to use the use areas.

      (4)   Removal of improvements. Provider shall remove all
communications equipment and restore the use areas including pole, mast
arms, luminaires, or wireless support structure to its prior condition,
or to a condition matching city’s surrounding land and improvements, as
directed by city, at provider’s expense prior to normal expiration of
the term of a site license or within thirty (30) calendar days; after
termination of an agreement for any other reason whatsoever. Without
limitation, such work shall include revegetation and appropriate
irrigation systems for revegetated areas. Notwithstanding anything in
these Standard Terms to the contrary, city may elect to require provider
to leave any or all construction or other items (except the
communications equipment) in place, and all such items shall be owned by
city. Unless city directs otherwise, all wiring, pipes and conduits
shall be left in good and safe condition, in working order, with each
end properly labeled and enclosed in proper junction boxes.

      (5)   Prior improvements. This article also applies to any
improvements that provider may have made to the use areas.

   (K)   Indemnity and insurance. During the entire term of any site
license, provider shall insure its property and activities at and about
the use areas and shall provide insurance and indemnification as
follows:

      (1)   Insurance required. Not later than the date of this
agreement, and at all times thereafter when provider is occupying or
using the use areas in any way, provider shall obtain and cause to be in
force and effect the following insurance:

         (a)   Commercial general liability. Commercial general
liability insurance with a limit of ten million dollars ($10,000,000)
for each occurrence, a limit of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) for
products and completed operations annual aggregate, and a limit of ten
million dollars ($10,000,000) general aggregate limit per policy year.
The policy shall cover liability arising from premises, operations,
independent contractors, products, completed operations, personal
injury, bodily injury, advertising injury, and liability assumed under
an “insured contract” including this agreement. The policy will cover
provider’s liability under the indemnity provisions set forth in these
Standard Terms. The policy shall contain a “separation of insured’s”
clause.

         (b)   Automobile liability. Automobile liability insurance with
a limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000) for each occurrence covering
any and all owned, hired, and non-owned vehicles assigned to or used in
any way in connection with provider’s use of the ROW. Without
limitation, such insurance shall cover hazards of motor vehicle use for
loading and off-loading.

         (c)   Workers’ compensation. Such workers’ compensation and
similar insurance as is required by law and employer’s liability
insurance with a minimum limit of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) for each accident, one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
disease for each employee, five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000)
policy limit for disease. All contractors and subcontractors must
provide like insurance.

         (d)   Special risk property. Unless waived by city in writing,
all risk property insurance covering damage to or destruction of all
real and personal improvements to the ROW, including without limitation,
all improvements existing upon the ROW prior to this agreement or
hereafter constructed in an amount equal to full replacement cost of all
such improvements. Such insurance shall be special causes of loss policy
form (minimally including perils of fire, lightning, explosion,
windstorm, hail, smoke, aircraft, vehicles, riot, civil commotion,
theft, vandalism, malicious mischief, collapse and flood). Coverage
shall include pollutant clean up and removal with minimum limits
coverage of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).

            1.   Other insurance. Any other insurance city may
reasonably require for the protection of city and city’s employees,
officials, representatives, officers and agents (all of whom, including
city, are collectively “additional insureds”), the ROW, surrounding
property, provider, or the activities carried on or about the ROW. Such
insurance shall be limited to insurance a reasonable person owning,
leasing, designing, constructing, occupying, or operating similar
facilities might reasonably purchase.

      (2)   Policy limit escalation. City may elect by notice to
provider to increase the amount or type of any insurance to account for
inflation, changes in risk, or any other factor that city reasonably
determines to affect the prudent amount of insurance to be provided.

      (3)   Form of all insurance. All insurance provided by provider
with respect to the ROW, whether required in these Standard Terms or
not, shall meet the following requirements:

         (a)   “Occurrence” coverage is required.

         (b)   If Provider uses any excess insurance then such excess
insurance shall be “follow form” equal to or broader in coverage than
the underlying insurance.

         (c)   Policies must also cover and insure provider’s activities
relating to the business operations and activities conducted away from
the ROW.

         (d)   Within five (5) business days of receiving a written
request from the city, provider shall provide copies of insurance
certificates, insurance policies, formal endorsements or other
documentation acceptable to city that all insurance coverage required
herein is provided.

         (e)   Provider’s insurance shall be primary insurance with
respect to claims arising out of Provider’s operations, activities and
obligations set forth in these Standard Terms.

         (f)   All policies, including workers’ compensation, shall
waive transfer rights of recovery (subrogation) against city, and the
other additional insureds.

         (g)   All deductibles, retentions, or “self-insured” amounts
shall be subject to the following:

            1.   Provider shall be solely responsible for any
self-insurance amount or deductible.

            2.   Such amounts shall not exceed in total one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000) per loss. At such times as provider’s net
worth is more than one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), such
limit shall be one million dollars ($1,000,000).

            3.   Any self-insured exposure shall be deemed to be an
insured risk under this agreement.

            4.   Provider shall provide to the beneficiaries of all such
amounts no less insurance protection than if such self-insured portion
was fully insured by an insurance company of the quality and caliber
required hereunder.

            5.   The right to self-insure is limited and specific to
Provider and does not extend to Provider’s contractors or others.

         (h)   All policies except workers’ compensation must name city
and the other additional insureds as additional insureds. Provider shall
cause coverage for additional insureds to be incorporated into each
insurance policy by endorsement with respect to claims arising out of
provider’s operations, activities and obligations under these Standard
Terms.

         (i)   All policies must require the insurer to provide city
with at least thirty (30) calendar days prior notice of any
cancellation. The insurer’s duty to notify city of changes in coverage
shall not include phrases such as “endeavor to” or “but failure to mail
such notice shall impose no obligation or liability of any kind upon the
company, its agents or representatives.”

         (j)   All policies shall require that notices be given to city
in the manner specified for notices to city set forth in these Standard
Terms.

      (4)   Insurance certificates. Provider shall evidence all
insurance by furnishing to city certificates of insurance annually and
with each change in insurance coverage. Certificates must evidence that
the policy described by the certificate is in full force and effect and
that the policy satisfies each requirement of these Standard Terms
applicable to the policy. For example, certificates must evidence that
city and the other additional insureds are additional insureds.
Certificates must also be in an industry standard form reasonably
acceptable to city. Provider shall provide updated certificates at
city’s request.

      (5)   Acceptable insurers. All insurance policies shall be issued
by insurers acceptable to city. At a minimum, all insurers shall be duly
licensed (or qualified unlicensed non-admitted insurer) by the State of
Arizona, Department of Insurance. At a minimum, all insurers shall have
and maintain an A.M. Best, Inc. rating of B++ 6.

      (6)   No representation of coverage adequacy. By requiring
insurance herein, city does not represent that coverage and limits will
be adequate to protect provider. City reserves the right to review any
and all of the insurance policies and/or endorsements cited in these
Standard Terms but has no obligation to do so. Failure to demand such
evidence of full compliance with the insurance requirements set forth in
these Standard Terms or failure to identify any insurance deficiency
shall not relieve provider from, nor be construed or deemed a waiver of,
provider’s obligation to maintain the required insurance at all times.

      (7)   Indemnity. In addition to all other indemnities and other
obligations hereunder, to the fullest extent permitted by law,
throughout the term of any site license and until all obligations and
performances under or related to these Standard Terms are satisfied and
all matters described in this paragraph are completely resolved,
Provider and all other persons using, acting, working or claiming
through or for Provider (if they or their subcontractor, employee or
other person or entity hired or directed by them participated in any way
in causing the claim in question) shall jointly and severally indemnify,
defend and hold harmless city and all other additional insureds for,
from and against any and all claims or harm related to provider’s use of
the ROW or the rights granted to provider with respect to the ROW or
Provider’s exercise of its rights under these Standard Terms (the
“Indemnity”). Without limitation, the Indemnity shall include and apply
to any and all allegations, demands, judgments, assessments, taxes,
impositions, expenses, proceedings, liabilities, obligations, suits,
actions, claims (including without limitation claims of personal injury,
bodily injury, sickness, disease, death, property damage, destruction,
loss of use, financial harm, or other impairment), damages, losses,
expenses, penalties, fines or other matters (together with all attorney
fees, court costs, and the cost of appellate proceedings and all other
costs and expenses of litigation or resolving the claim) that may arise
in any manner out of any use of the ROW or other property pursuant to
any site license or any actions, acts, errors, mistakes or omissions
relating to work or services in the performance of or related to this
agreement, including without limitation any injury or damages or cause
of action claimed or caused by any employees, contractors,
subcontractors, tenants, subtenants, agents or other persons upon or
using the ROW or surrounding areas related to provider’s exercise of its
rights under this agreement, including without limitation, claims,
liability, harm or damages caused in part by city or any other
additional insured or anyone for whose mistakes, errors, omissions or
negligence provider or city may be liable. As a condition to city’s
approval of any site license, provider specifically agrees that to the
extent any provision of this paragraph is not fully enforceable against
provider for any reason whatsoever, this paragraph shall be deemed
automatically reformed to the minimal extent necessary to cause it to be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. The indemnity shall
also include and apply to any environmental injury, personal injury or
other liability relating to provider’s use of real property under this
agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the indemnity does not apply
to:

         (a)   Claims arising only from the sole gross negligence or
intentionally wrongful acts of city.

         (b)   Claims that the law prohibits from being imposed upon the
indemnitor.

      (8)   Risk of loss. Provider assumes the risk of any and all loss,
damage or claims related to provider’s use of the ROW or other property
of city, provider or third parties throughout the term hereof. Provider
shall be responsible for any and all damage to its property and
equipment related to these Standard Terms.

      (9)   Insurance to be provided by others. Provider shall cause its
contractors or other persons occupying, working on or about, or using
the ROW pursuant to these Standard Terms to be covered by their own or
provider’s insurance as required by these Standard Terms. The required
policy limits for commercial general liability insurance provided by
such persons shall be one million dollars ($1,000,000) for each
occurrence, one million dollars ($1,000,000) for products and completed
operations annual aggregate, and two million dollars ($2,000,000)
general aggregate limit per policy year. This paragraph does not apply
to persons who do not actually perform physical labor in the ROW (such
as provider’s consulting design engineers).

   (L)   Damage to or destruction of the use areas. The following
provisions shall govern damage to or destruction of the use areas by
fire, flood, explosion, the elements, the public enemy, or other
casualty (collectively “casualty damage”):

      (1)   Damage to provider’s improvements. Provider shall commence
restoring the casualty damage to provider’s improvements within thirty
(30) calendar days after any casualty damage occurs. Provider shall
complete the restoration work within thirty (30) calendar days after
commencement. Such work shall be subject to the plans approval process
and all other requirements for provider’s improvements. Provider shall
perform all restoration work at provider’s sole cost and expense.

      (2)   Monthly restoration work report. Provider shall provide to
city no later than the tenth day of each month a written narrative
report of the progress of the restoration work.

   (M)   Provider’s records. During the entire term of any agreement,
provider shall keep records and provide information to city as follows:

      (1)   Scope of information. Unless otherwise specified, all of
provider’s recordkeeping and disclosure obligations under this article
are limited to the following (collectively the “covered information”):

         (a)   The status of the construction, repair or restoration of
provider improvements.

         (b)   Information indicating whether city or provider is in
compliance with the terms herein.

      (2)   Records inspection. At provider’s expense, provider shall:

         (a)   Permit and assist city and its representatives upon
twenty-one (21) calendar days notice to inspect, audit, and copy
provider’s records of covered information.

         (b)   Make the records of covered information (and reasonable
accommodations for city’s audit and inspection) available to city at
provider’s offices in the Phoenix metropolitan area.

         (c)   Cause provider’s employees and agents and accountants to
give their full cooperation and assistance in connection with city’s
access to the covered information.

      (3)   Record retention. Provider shall preserve records of the
covered information in a secure place at provider’s corporate
headquarters in the continental United States for a period ending seven
(7) years after the time period reported by the records.

      (4)   Record media included. City’s and provider’s rights and
obligations regarding the covered information apply regardless of the
type of media, materials, or data repositories that may contain the
covered information. City shall have access to covered information
contained, without limitation, in records, books, papers, documents,
recordings, computer data, contracts, logs, notes, ledgers,
correspondence, reports, drawings, and memoranda, and any and all other
sources, records and repositories of covered information.

      (5)   Reports. Provider shall deliver to city written reports
(and, if requested by city, a presentation to city’s governing council
or designee) covering such covered information as city may request from
time to time. City shall notrequestsuch reports more often than once in
any twelve (12) month period.

      (6)   Standards for records. Provider shall maintain a standard,
modern system of recordkeeping for the covered information and shall
keep and maintain proper and accurate books and other repositories of
information relating to the covered information.

   (N)   Compliance with law. Provider shall perform its obligations
under these Standard Terms in accordance with all federal, state, county
and local laws, ordinances, regulations or other rules or policies as
are now in effect or as may hereafter be adopted or amended. Without
limiting in any way the generality of the foregoing, provider shall
comply with all and each of the following:

      (1)   Applicability of municipal law. Without limitation, provider
shall comply with municipal laws as follows:

         (a)   Provider acknowledges nothing set forth herein
constitutes, and city has not promised or offered, any type of waiver
of, or agreement to waive (or show any type of forbearance, priority or
favoritism to provider with regard to) any law, ordinance, power,
regulation, tax, assessment or other legal requirement now or hereafter
imposed by the City of Apache Junction or any other governmental body
upon or affecting provider, the use areas, or the street parcel or
provider’s use of the use areas, the street parcel or the rights-of-way.

         (b)   All of provider’s obligations hereunder are in addition
to, and cumulative upon (and not to any extent in substitution or
satisfaction of), all existing or future laws and regulations applicable
to Provider.

         (c)   City by this agreement cannot and has not relinquished or
limited any right of condemnation or eminent domain over the ROW or any
other property related to these Standard Terms or within the ROW.

         (d)   This agreement cannot and does not impair city’s, power
to enact, apply or enforce any laws or regulations, or exercise any
governmental powers affecting in any way provider, the use areas, the
street parcel, or the ROW.

         (e)   City’s rights and remedies hereunder for provider’s
failure to comply with all applicable laws supplement and are in
addition to and do not replace otherwise existing powers of the City of
Apache Junction or any other governmental body.

         (f)   Provider’s rights hereunder are further subject to all
present and future building restrictions, regulations, zoning laws, and
all ordinances, resolutions, rules and orders of all bodies, bureaus,
commissions and bodies of any municipal, county, state, or federal
authority, now or hereafter having jurisdiction over the use areas or
provider’s use thereof. Provider shall comply with all of the foregoing.

      (2)   Radio frequency compliance requirements. Provider shall
document, report and confirm its compliance with Federal Communications
Commission (“FCC”) Radio Frequency Exposure Guidelines (FCC OET Bulletin
65) and all other applicable RF emissions laws and regulations in effect
from time to time (collectively, the “FCC rules”) as follows:

         (a)   Provider shall cause its senior internal engineer
responsible for compliance with the FCC Rules to deliver to city a
written letter (the “RF letter”), as follows:

            1.   The RF letter shall attest that provider’s operation of
the communications equipment is in compliance with the FCC rules. A
statement from wireless provider declaring exemption from reporting to
FCC is not acceptable to comply with the requirements of this paragraph.

            2.   Provider shall maintain records of RF measurements and
communications equipment performance in accordance with the FCC rules.

            3.   Provider shall also evidence and demonstrate its
compliance with the FCC rules in such manner and at such intervals as
the Apache Junction City Code and other applicable laws and regulations
may mandate.

      (3)   Government property lease excise tax. Provider shall be
responsible for any and all property taxes and all government property
lease excise taxes described in A.R.S. § 42-6201 et seq. or similar laws
in force from time to time. Pursuant to A.R.S. § 42-6206, failure by
provider to pay the taxes after notice and an opportunity to cure is an
event of default that could result in divesting provider of any interest
in or right of occupancy of the use areas.

      (4)   Use area regulations. City reserves the right to adopt,
amend and enforce against provider rules and regulations governing the
operation of the street parcel, including the use areas, provider’s
activities therein and thereon, and the public areas and facilities used
by provider in connection therewith.

      (5)   Taxes, liens and assessments. In addition to all other
amounts herein provided and to the extent consistent with applicable
law, provider shall pay, when the same become due and payable, all taxes
and general and special fees, charges and assessments of every
description that during the term of any agreement may be levied upon or
assessed upon or with respect to provider’s use of the ROW, the
operations conducted therein, any amounts paid or other performances
required by these Standard Terms by either party, and all possessory
interest in the ROW and provider’s improvements and other property
thereon. Provider shall pay, indemnify, defend and hold harmless city
from any and all such obligations, including any interest, penalties and
other expenses which may be imposed, and from any lien therefor or sate
or other proceedings to enforce payment thereof.

      (6)   Permits. Nothing in these Standard Terms relieves provider
of the obligation to obtain permits, licenses and other approvals from
city or other units of government that are required for the erection,
construction, reconstruction, installation, operation or maintenance of
the communications equipment or provision of telecommunications
services; or from compliance with applicable municipal codes,
ordinances, laws and policies, such as zoning and land use ordinances
and regulations, pavement cut and restoration ordinances and
regulations, subdivision and project improvement ordinances, curb cut
permits, building permits, ROW permits and the like.

   (O)   Assignability. Site license agreements are not assignable by
provider (and any assignment shall be void and vest no rights in the
purported assignee) unless the assignment is made in strict compliance
with the following:

      (1)   Assignments affected. Every assignment of any of provider’s
interest in the ROW or this agreement or any of provider’s rights or
interests hereunder is prohibited unless provider first receives from
city notice of city’s consent to the assignment. All references in these
Standard Terms to assignments by provider or to assignees shall be
deemed also to apply to all of the following transactions, circumstances
and conditions and to all persons claiming pursuant to such
transactions, circumstances and conditions:

         (a)   Any voluntary or involuntary assignment, conveyance or
transfer of provider’s right to use the ROW under this agreement or any
interest or rights of city under this agreement, in whole or in part.

         (b)   Any voluntary or involuntary pledge, lien, mortgage,
security interest, judgment, claim or demand, whether arising from any
contract, any agreement, any work of construction, repair, restoration,
maintenance or removal, or otherwise affecting provider’s rights to use
the ROW (collectively “liens”).

         (c)   Any assignment by provider of any interest in any
agreement for the benefit of creditors, voluntary or involuntary.

         (d)   A provider insolvency.

         (e)   The occurrence of any of the foregoing by operation of
law or otherwise.

         (f)   The occurrence of any of the foregoing with respect to
any assignee or other successor to provider.

      (2)   Pre-approved assignments. Subject to certain conditions
hereafter stated, city hereby consents to certain assignments (the
“pre-approved assignments”). Only the following assignments are
pre-approved assignments:

         (a)   Complete assignment of agreement. Provider’s complete
assignment of all of provider’s rights and Interests in the ROW and
approved agreements to a single assignee who meets all of the following
requirements, as determined by city in city’s reasonable discretion (a
“qualified operator”):

            1.   The assignee has experience, management, credit
standing and financial capacity and other resources equal to or greater
than Provider’s and adequate to successfully perform the obligations set
forth herein.

            2.   The assignee is experienced in the management and
operation of similar projects.

            3.   The assignee assumes all of provider’s obligations
herein.

            4.   The assignee has a net worth of not less than fifty
million dollars ($50,000,000).

         (b)   Stock transfers. The transfer of publicly traded stock,
regardless of quantity.

         (c)   Merger. The merger or consolidation of provider with
another entity that is a qualified operator.

         (d)   Common ownership transfer. Provider’s complete assignment
of all of provider’s rights and interests in the ROW and approved
agreements to single assignee who is and remains a wholly owned
subsidiary of provider’s sole owner as of the date of this agreement (or
a wholly owned subsidiary of a wholly owned subsidiary of provider’s
sole owner as of the date of this agreement).

      (3)   Limitations on assignments. City’s consent to any
assignment, including without limitation, pre-approved assignments, is
not effective until the following conditions are satisfied:

         (a)   Except for the sale of stock, provider shall provide to
city a complete copy of the document assigning its interests.

         (b)   Each assignee must execute an assumption of the
agreements in form acceptable to city.

         (c)   Each pre-approved assignment must satisfy all other
requirements of these Standard Terms pertaining to assignments.

      (4)   Assignment remedies. Any assignment without city’s consent
shall be void and shall not result in the assignee obtaining any rights
or interests. City may, in its sole discretion and in addition to all
other remedies available to city under these Standard Terms or
otherwise, and in any combination, terminate any and all site licenses,
collect use fee from the assignee and/or declare the assignment to be
void, all without prejudicing any other right or remedy of city under
these Standard Terms. No cure or grace periods shall apply to
assignments prohibited under these Standard Terms or to enforcement of
any provision under these Standard Terms against an assignee who did not
receive city’s consent.

      (5)   Effect of assignment. Prior to any assignment, each assignee
must execute an assumption of each Site License in the form attached
hereto as Attachment C. No action or inaction by city shall be deemed a
waiver of the prohibition on assignments or any other provision herein,
or the acceptance of the assignee, provider or occupant as provider, or
a release of provider from the further performance by provider of the
provisions of this agreement. Consent by city to an assignment shall not
relieve provider from obtaining city’s consent to any further
assignment. No assignment shall release provider from any liability
hereunder.

      (6)   Enforceability after assignment. No consent by city shall be
deemed to be a novation. City’s consent to any assignment does not in
any way expand or modify the terms set forth in these Standard Terms or
waive, diminish or modify any of city’s rights or remedies under this
agreement. The terms set forth in these Standard Terms shall be
enforceable against Provider and each successor, partial or total, and
regardless of the method of succession, to provider’s interest
hereunder. Each successor having actual or constructive notice of this
agreement shall be deemed to have agreed to the preceding sentence.

      (7)   Grounds for refusal. Except for the pre-approved
assignments, no assignment of any site license by provider is
contemplated or bargained for. Without limitation, city has the right to
impose upon any consent to assignment such conditions and requirements
as city may deem appropriate.

      (8)   Consent to assignments. Provider shall attach to each
pre-approved assignment a copy of provider’s notice to city of the
pre-approved assignment and other required documents, provider shall
attach to each other assignment, a copy of city’s notice to provider of
city’s consent to the assignment. These Standard Terms shall continue to
be enforceable according to its terms in spite of any provisions of any
documents relating to an assignment.

      (9)   Assignment fee. Provider shall pay to city in advance the
sum of five hundred dollars ($500) as a non-refundable fee for legal,
administrative and other expenses related to every pre-approved
assignment (other than the sale of publicly traded stock) or to any
request for a consent to assignment, whether or not city grants such
request.

   (P)   Miscellaneous. The following additional provisions apply to
these Standard Terms:

      (1)   Amendments. These Standard Terms may not be amended except
by a formal writing executed by ail of the parties.

      (2)   Dates. Any reference to a year shall refer to a calendar
year unless a fiscal year is specifically stated. Sunday, Saturday and
Arizona legal holidays are holidays for purposes of this agreement.

      (3)   Time of essence. Time is of the essence of each and every
provision of this agreement.

      (4)   Severability. If any provision of these Standard Terms shall
be ruled by a court or agency of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
unenforceable for any reason, then:

         (a)   The invalidity or unenforceability of such provision
shall not affect the validity of any remaining provisions of these
Standard Terms.

         (b)   These Standard Terms shall be automatically reformed to
secure to the parties the benefits of the unenforceable provision, to
the maximum extent consistent with law.

      (5)   Conflicts of interest. No officer, representative or
employee of city shall have any direct or INDIRECT interest in this
agreement, nor participate in any decision relating to any site license
that is prohibited by law.

      (6)   No partnership. The transactions and performances
contemplated hereby shall not create any sort of partnership, joint
venture or similar relationship between the parties.

      (7)   Non-liability of officials and employees. No official,
representative or employee of city shall be personally liable to any
party, or to any successor in interest to any party, in the event of any
default or breach by city or for any amount which may become due to any
party or successor, or with respect to any obligation of city or
otherwise under the terms of this agreement or related to this
agreement.

      (8)   Notices. Notices hereunder shall be given in writing
delivered to the other party or mailed by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, postage prepaid to the addresses set forth in
the Site License Agreements and to the City as follows:

      If to City:   City Engineer

            City of Apache Junction

            575 East Baseline Avenue

            Apache Junction, AZ 85119

   With a copy to:   City Attorney

            City of Apache Junction

            300 E. Superstition Blvd.

            Apache Junction, AZ 85119

         By notice from time to time, a person may designate any other
street address within Pinal County, Arizona as its address for giving
notice hereunder. Service of any notice by mail shall be deemed to be
complete three (3) days (excluding Friday, Saturday, Sunday and legal
holidays) after the notice is deposited in the United States mail.

      (9)   Construction. Whenever the context of these Standard Terms
requires herein the singular shall include the plural, and the masculine
shall include the feminine.

      (10)   Funding. This subparagraph shall control notwithstanding
any provision of this agreement or any exhibit or other agreement or
document related hereto. If funds necessary to fulfill city’s
obligations under this agreement are not appropriated by the Apache
Junction City Council, City may terminate this agreement, by notice to
provider. City shall use best efforts to give notice of such a
termination to provider at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the
end of city’s then current fiscal period. Termination in accordance with
this provision shall not constitute a breach of this agreement by city.
No person will be entitled to any compensation, damages or other remedy
from city if this agreement is terminated pursuant to the terms of this
subsection.

      (11)   Paragraph headings. The paragraph headings contained herein
are for convenience in reference and not intended to define or limit the
scope of any provision of this agreement.

      (12)   No third party beneficiaries. No person or entity shall be
a third party beneficiary to this agreement or shall have any right or
cause of action hereunder. City shall have no liability to third parties
for any approval of plans, provider’s construction of improvements,
provider’s negligence, provider’s failure to comply with the provisions
of these Standard Terms (including any absence or inadequacy of
insurance required to be carried by provider).

      (13)   Exhibits. All Exhibits specifically stated to be attached
hereto as specified herein are hereby incorporated into and made an
integral part of this agreement for all purposes.

      (14)   Attorneys’ fees. If any action, suitor proceeding is
brought by either party hereunder to enforce this agreement or for
failure to observe any of the covenants of this agreement or to
vindicate or exercise any rights or remedies hereunder, the prevailing
party in such proceeding shall be entitled to recover from the other
party such prevailing party’s reasonable attorneys’ fees and other
reasonable litigation costs (as determined by the court (and not a jury)
in such proceeding).

      (15)   Approvals and inspections. All approvals, reviews and
inspections by city are for city’s sole benefit and not for the benefit
of provider, its contractors, engineers or other consultants or agents,
or any other person.

      (16)   Legal workers. If and to the extent A.R.S. § 41-4401 is
applicable provider shall comply with laws regarding workers as follows:

         (a)   Provider warrants to city that provider and all its
subcontractors will comply with all federal immigration laws and
regulations that relate to their employees and that provider and all its
subcontractors now comply with the E-Verify Program under A.R.S. §
23-214(A).

         (b)   A Breach of the foregoing warranty by provider shall be
deemed a material breach of this agreement that is subject to penalties
up to and including termination of this agreement.

         (c)   City retains the legal right to inspect the papers of any
employee of provider or any subcontractor who works on a use area
pursuant to agreement to ensure that they or the subcontractor is
complying with the warranty given above.

         (d)   City may conduct random verification of provider’s and
its subcontractors’ employment records to ensure compliance with the
warranty given above.

         (e)   Provider shall indemnify, defend and hold city harmless
for, from and against all losses and liabilities arising from any and
all violations of the warranty given above.

EXHIBIT A-1

ANTENNA SITE RIGHT-OF-WAY LICENSE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF APACHE
JUNCTION AND FOR CITY OWNED POLE

THIS ANTENNA SITE RIGHT-OF-WAY LICENSE AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is
made and entered into this         day of                      ,
20     , (the “Execution Date”) by and between the CITY OF APACHE
JUNCTION, an Arizona municipal corporation (“City”), and [COMPANY NAME,
INC.], an Arizona [corporation/limited liability company], (“Provider”),
sometimes collectively referred to as the “Parties” or individually as a
“Party”.

RECITALS

   A.   The City of Apache Junction “Wireless Facilities Standard Terms
and Conditions” sets out various recitals (collectively the “recitals”)
and provisions (collectively the “terms”).

   B.   City holds an interest in a parcel of land (the “parcel”)
comprising street rights-of-way (“ROW”) for
                                                          . The parcel
is located approximately                   feet of the center of the
intersection of                                          and
                                                      .

   C.   This Agreement allows Provider to use certain limited portions
of the parcel.

   D.   The portions of the parcel that this Agreement allows Provider
to use (the “Use Areas”) are defined in the package of maps and related
materials (the “

   E.   Provider desires to install and operate on the Use Areas the
wireless telecommunications receiving, processing and transmitting
devices and related electronic equipment that is specified on the Site
Plan (the “communications equipment”) subject to the requirements of
this Agreement. The communications equipment is limited to the actual
electronic equipment, portable cabinets for such equipment, the
enclosure, the antennas (“antennas”) used to communicate with cell
phones and similar devices, all as shown on the drawing (the “Site
Plan”) attached hereto as Exhibit B. Notwithstanding anything in this
Agreement to the contrary, the communications equipment excludes any
item not shown on the Site Plan.

   F.   The volume of the enclosure and the above ground portion of its
pad as shown in the Site Plan is               cubic feet.

   G.   The parcel is currently improved with an approximately
              foot tall [electrical/traffic signal/street light/antenna
support] pole (the “Pole”) owned by City.

   H.   Provider proposes to [use the existing Pole/replace the existing
Pole] with a new Pole that City will own.

   I.   In order to install the communications equipment, Provider
desires to construct supporting improvements and perform alt other work
shown on the Site Plan (collectively the “Project”).

   J.   Provider shall complete the entire Project and put the
communications equipment in full operation no later than one hundred
eighty (180) calendar days after the date of the issuance of the
encroachment permit (the “completion deadline”), or otherwise abandons
its application request.

   K.   City desires to grant to Provider a license to install,
maintain, operate and repair the communications equipment (the
“Permitted Uses”) subject to the requirements of this Agreement.

   L.   The recitals are all incorporated herein by reference as if set
out in full.

TERMS

   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing Recitals and the
mutual promises and covenants set forth herein, and for other
consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged,
the Parties agree as follows:

   1.   License Terms. City hereby grants to Provider a license to use
the Use Areas as follows:

      A.   Terms Incorporated. The terms are all incorporated herein by
reference as if set out in full. Provider warrants and represents that
provider has read and agrees to the recitals and the terms. Capitalized
terms used but not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings
assigned by the recitals and the terms.

      B.   Terms Application. Provider shall comply with all of the
terms. Without limitation, the terms shall apply to the Use Areas as
follows:

         i.   Provider’s Boundary Plan Responsibility. It is Provider’s
responsibility before signing this Agreement to ensure that the Boundary
Plan is prepared as follows:

            a.   Provider shall insure that the Boundary Plan clearly
depicts all portions of the parcel that Provider desires to use and that
each such area is clearly shown on the Boundary Plan and labeled to
clearly indicate which of the categories of exclusive areas or shared
areas set out in the standard terms applies to the area.

            b.   If the Boundary Plan does not clearly show any portion
of the parcel as one of the categories of exclusive areas or shared
areas set out in the terms, then such portion of the parcel is not part
of the Use Areas and Provider may not use such portion of the parcel,
even if the use is discussed in the terms.

            c.   Any exclusive area or shared area described or named in
the terms that is not clearly depicted and correctly labeled on the
Boundary Plan is excluded from this Agreement and unavailable for
Provider’s use.

            d.   Any portion of the Boundary Plan or the Site Plan that
indicates a Provider use of the parcel that is not one of the exclusive
areas or shared areas specifically enumerated in the terms is excluded
from this Agreement and not available for Provider’s use.

            e.   All work, improvements and equipment within an
exclusive area or shared area is limited to the purposes enumerated in
the terms for that particular exclusive area or shared area.

            f.   This Agreement does not allow use of any land other
than the specified portions of the parcel that are exclusive areas or
shared areas.

            g.   Any change to the Boundary Plan after City executes
this Agreement is void unless it is memorialized in a formal amendment
to this Agreement.

         ii.   Site Plan. It is Provider’s responsibility before signing
this Agreement to ensure that the Site Plan correctly shows the work
that Provider intends to perform, that the Site Plan correctly shows all
improvements and equipment that Provider intends be located on the Use
Areas, that the Site Plan shows no work, improvements or equipment
outside the exclusive areas and shared areas properly depicted and
labeled on the Boundary Plan, and that all work, improvements and
equipment is encompassed within the purposes enumerated in the terms for
that particular exclusive area or shared area. Any work, improvements or
equipment not conforming to all the foregoing is prohibited, even if it
is clearly shown on the Site Plan or discussed in the terms. Any
refinement or other change to the Site Plan after City executes this
Agreement is void unless Provider obtains Provider’s approval of the
change pursuant to the plans approval processes set out in the terms and
pursuant to all applicable regulatory requirements.

         iii.   Term of Agreement. The term of this Agreement is as
stated in Section 1 License Terms.

         iv.   Provider’s Payments. Provider shall pay City the amounts
described in the terms.

         v.   Use Restrictions. Provider shall comply with the use
restrictions set out in the terms.

         vi.   Encroachment Permits. This Agreement constitutes an
“Encroachment Permit” under Chapter 13 , Volume I of the Apache Junction
City Code to the extent of granting permission for the communications
equipment to exist on the parcel but not to allow any construction or
other work of any description in the ROW or to allow obstruction of
traffic or alteration of City’s improvements. Before performing any work
on the ROW, Provider shall obtain the following additional encroachment
permits, as applicable:

            ∙   Permission to work in the ROW.

            ∙    Traffic Control Plan.

            ∙    Any other applicable permits regarding work in the ROW.

         vii.   Compliance with Law. Provider acknowledges that this
Agreement does not constitute, and City has not promised or offered, any
type of waiver of, or agreement to waive (or show any type of
forbearance, priority or favoritism to Provider with regard to) any law,
ordinance, power, regulation, tax, assessment or other legal requirement
now or hereafter imposed by the City of Apache Junction or any other
governmental body upon or affecting Provider’s use of the parcel. For
example, Provider shall comply with all building and ROW codes,
ordinances and policies.

   2.   City’s Initial Information. Unless and until City gives notice
otherwise, City’s contract administrator shall be the City Engineer.

   3.   Provider’s Initial Information. Unless and until Provider gives
notice otherwise Provider’s network operations center phone number is (
) . Provider’s address for notices shall be: [NAME, STREET ADDRESS,
CITY, STATE, ZIP]. Provider’s billing address for routine billing
invoices shall be: [NAME, STREET ADDRESS, CITY, STATE, ZIP].

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the
date first set forth above.

                     PROVIDER:

                     [COMPANY NAME, INC.], an Arizona

                     [corporation/limited liability company]

                                                                                                                    

                     By: [Name]

                     Its: [Title]

                     CITY:

                     CITY OF APACHE JUNCTION, ARIZONA,

                     an Arizona municipal corporation

                                                                                                                    

                     By:                                                                                             

                     Its: City Engineer

STATE OF                                 )

               ) ss.

County of                                    )

The foregoing was subscribed and sworn to before me this
                      day of                                       ,

20         , by                                                   as
                                            of [Company Name], an
Arizona [corporation/limited liability company].

                                                                                                

                                                Notary Public

My Commission Expires:

                                                              

STATE OF                                 )

               ) ss.

County of                                    )

The foregoing was subscribed and sworn to before me this
                      day of                                       ,
20         , by                                                   City
Engineer of the city of Apache Junction, Arizona, an Arizona municipal
corporation.

                                                                                                

                                                Notary Public

My Commission Expires:

                                                              

   EXHIBIT A

   BOUNDARY PLAN

 

 

   EXHIBIT B

   BOUNDARY PLAN

 

 

EXHIBIT A-2

ANTENNA SITE RIGHT-OF-WAY LICENSE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF APACHE
JUNCTION AND                                                 
FOR WIRELESS PROVIDER OWNED NEW POLE

THIS ANTENNA SITE RIGHT-OF-WAY LICENSE AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is
made and entered into this              day of
                               , 20      , (the “Execution Date”) by and
between the CITY OF APACHE JUNCTION, an Arizona municipal corporation
(“City”), and [COMPANY NAME, INC.], an Arizona [corporation/limited
liability company], (“Provider”), sometimes collectively referred to as
the “Parties” or individually as a “Party”.

RECITALS

   A.   The City of Apache Junction “Wireless Facilities Standard Terms
and Conditions” sets out various recitals (collectively the “recitals”)
and provisions (collectively the “terms”).

   B.   City holds an interest in a parcel of land (the “parcel”)
comprising street rights-of-way (“ROW”) for
                                                    . The parcel is
located approximately                           feet of the center of
the intersection of                                                  
and                                                   .

   C.   This Agreement allows Provider to use certain limited portions
of the parcel.

   D.   The portions of the parcel that this Agreement allows Provider
to use (the “Use Areas”) are defined in the package of maps and related
materials (the “Boundary Plan”) attached hereto as Exhibit A.

   E.   Provider desires to install and operate on the Use Areas the
wireless telecommunications receiving, processing and transmitting
devices and related electronic equipment that is specified on the Site
Plan (the “communications equipment”) subject to the requirements of
this Agreement. The communications equipment is limited to the actual
electronic equipment, portable cabinets for such equipment, the
enclosure, the antennas (“antennas”) used to communicate with cell
phones and similar devices, all as shown on the drawing (the “Site
Plan”) attached hereto as Exhibit B. Notwithstanding anything in this
Agreement to the contrary, the communications equipment excludes any
item not shown on the Site Plan.

   F.   The volume of the enclosure and the above ground portion of its
pad as shown in the Site Plan is                  cubic feet.

   G.   Provider proposes to install an approximately                 
foot tall wireless support structure (the “Pole”) owned by Provider (the
“Owner”).

   H.   In order to install the communication equipment, Provider
desires to construct supporting improvements and perform all other work
shown on the Site Plan (collectively the “Project”).

   I.   Provider shall complete the entire Project and put the
communications equipment in full operation no later than one hundred
eighty (180) calendar days after the date of the issuance of the
encroachment permit (the “completion deadline”), or otherwise abandons
its application request.

   J.   City desires to grant to Provider a license to install,
maintain, operate and repair the communications equipment (the
“Permitted Uses”) subject to the requirements of this Agreement.

   K.   The recitals are all incorporated herein by reference as if set
out in full.

TERMS

   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing Recitals and the
mutual promises and covenants set forth herein, and for other
consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged,
the Parties agree as follows:

   1.   License Terms. City hereby grants to Provider a license to use
the Use Areas as follows:

      A.   Terms Incorporated. The terms are all incorporated herein by
reference as if set out in full. Provider warrants and represents that
provider has read and agrees to the recitals and the terms. Capitalized
terms used but not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings
assigned by the recitals and the terms.

      B.   Terms Application. Provider shall comply with all of the
terms. Without limitation, the terms shall apply to the Use Areas as
follows:

         i.   Provider’s Boundary Plan Responsibility. It is Provider’s
responsibility before signing this Agreement to ensure that the Boundary
Plan is prepared as follows:

            a.   Provider shall insure that the Boundary Plan clearly
depicts all portions of the parcel that Provider desires to use and that
each such area is clearly shown on the Boundary Plan and labeled to
clearly indicate which of the categories of exclusive areas or shared
areas set out in the standard terms applies to the area.

            b.   If the Boundary Plan does not clearly show any portion
of the parcel as one of the categories of exclusive areas or shared
areas set out in the terms, then such portion of the parcel is not part
of the Use Areas and Provider may not use such portion of the parcel,
even if the use is discussed in the terms.

            c.   Any exclusive area or shared area described or named in
the terms that is not clearly depicted and correctly labeled on the
Boundary Plan is excluded from this Agreement and unavailable for
Provider’s use.

            d.   Any portion of the Boundary Plan or the Site Plan that
indicates a Provider use of the parcel that is not one of the exclusive
areas or shared areas specifically enumerated in the terms is excluded
from this Agreement and not available for Provider’s use.

            e.   All work, improvements and equipment within an
exclusive area or shared area is limited to the purposes enumerated in
the terms for that particular exclusive area or shared area.

            f.   This Agreement does not allow use of any land other
than the specified portions of the parcel that are exclusive areas or
shared areas.

            g.   Any change to the Boundary Plan after City executes
this Agreement is void unless it is memorialized in a formal amendment
to this Agreement.

         ii.   Site Plan. It is Provider’s responsibility before signing
this Agreement to ensure that the Site Plan correctly shows the work
that Provider intends to perform, that the Site Plan correctly shows all
improvements and equipment that Provider intends be located on the Use
Areas, that the Site Plan shows no work, improvements or equipment
outside the exclusive areas and shared areas properly depicted and
labeled on the Boundary Plan, and that all work, improvements and
equipment is encompassed within the purposes enumerated in the terms for
that particular exclusive area or shared area. Any work, improvements or
equipment not conforming to all the foregoing is prohibited, even if it
is clearly shown on the Site Plan or discussed in the terms. Any
refinement or other change to the Site Plan after City executes this
Agreement is void unless Provider obtains Provider’s approval of the
change pursuant to the plans approval processes set out in the terms and
pursuant to all applicable regulatory requirements.

         iii.   Term of Agreement. The term of this Agreement is as
stated in Section 1 License Terms.

         iv.   Provider’s Payments. Provider shall pay City the amounts
described in the terms.

         v.   Use Restrictions. Provider shall comply with the use
restrictions set out in the terms.

         vi.   Encroachment Permits. This Agreement constitutes an
“Encroachment Permit” under Chapter 13, Volume I of the Apache Junction
City Code to the extent of granting permission for the communications
equipment to exist on the parcel but not to allow any construction or
other work of any description in the ROW or to allow obstruction of
traffic or alteration of City’s improvements. Before performing any work
on the ROW, Provider shall obtain the following additional encroachment
permits, as applicable:

            ∙   Permission to work in the ROW.

            ∙    Traffic Control Plan.

            ∙    Any other applicable permits regarding work in the ROW.

         vii.   Compliance with Law. Provider acknowledges that this
Agreement does not constitute, and City has not promised or offered, any
type of waiver of, or agreement to waive (or show any type of
forbearance, priority or favoritism to Provider with regard to) any law,
ordinance, power, regulation, tax, assessment or other legal requirement
now or hereafter imposed by the City of Apache Junction or any other
governmental body upon or affecting Provider’s use of the parcel. For
example, Provider shall comply with all building and ROW codes,
ordinances and policies.

   2.   City’s Initial Information. Unless and until City gives notice
otherwise, City’s contract administrator shall be the City Engineer.

   3.   Provider’s Initial Information. Unless and until Provider gives
notice otherwise Provider’s network operations center phone number is
(        )                        . Provider’s address for notices shall
be: [NAME, STREET ADDRESS, CITY, STATE, ZIP]. Provider’s billing address
for routine billing invoices shall be: [NAME, STREET ADDRESS, CITY,
STATE, ZIP].

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the
date first set forth above.

                     PROVIDER:

                     [COMPANY NAME, INC.], an Arizona

                     [corporation/limited liability company]

                                                                                                      

                     By: [Name]

                     Its: [Title]

                     CITY:

                     CITY OF APACHE JUNCTION, ARIZONA, an

                     Arizona municipal corporation

                                                                                                      

                     By:
                                                                           

                     Its: City Engineer

STATE OF                                 )

               ) ss.

County of                                    )

The foregoing was subscribed and sworn to before me this
                      day of                                       ,
20         , by                                                   as
                                            of [Company Name], an
Arizona [corporation/limited liability company].

                                                                                                

                                                Notary Public

My Commission Expires:

                                                              

STATE OF                                 )

               ) ss.

County of                                    )

The foregoing was subscribed and sworn to before me this
                      day of                                       ,

20         , by                                                   City
Engineer of the city of Apache Junction, Arizona, an Arizona municipal
corporation.

                                                                                                

                                                Notary Public

My Commission Expires:

                                                              

   EXHIBIT A

   BOUNDARY PLAN

 

 

   EXHIBIT B

   SITE PLAN

 

 

EXHIBIT A-3

ANTENNA SITE RIGHT-OF-WAY LICENSE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF APACHE
JUNCTION AND                                              
FOR THIRD PARTY OWNED POLE

THIS ANTENNA SITE RIGHT-OF-WAY LICENSE AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is
made and entered into this           day of
                                , 20       , (the “Execution Date”) by
and between the CITY OF APACHE JUNCTION, an Arizona municipal
corporation (“City”), and [COMPANY NAME, INC.], an Arizona
[corporation/limited liability company], (“Provider”), sometimes
collectively referred to as the “Parties” or individually as a “Party”.

RECITALS

   A.   The City of Apache Junction “Wireless Facilities Standard Terms
and Conditions” sets out various recitals (collectively the “recitals”)
and provisions (collectively the “terms”).

   B.   City holds an interest in a parcel of land (the “parcel”)
comprising street rights-of-way (“ROW”) for
                                             . The parcel is located
approximately            feet of the center of the intersection of
                                                  and
                                                  .

   C.   This Agreement allows Provider to use certain limited portions
of the parcel.

   D.   The portions of the parcel that this Agreement allows Provider
to use (the “Use Areas”) are defined in the package of maps and related
materials (the “Boundary Plan”) attached hereto as Exhibit A.

   E.   Provider desires to install and operate on the Use Areas the
wireless telecommunications receiving, processing and transmitting
devices and related electronic equipment that is specified on the Site
Plan (the “communications equipment”) subject to the requirements of
this Agreement. The communications equipment is limited to the actual
electronic equipment, portable cabinets for such equipment, the
enclosure, the antennas (“antennas”) used to communicate with cell
phones and similar devices, all as shown on the drawing (the “Site
Plan”) attached hereto as Exhibit B. Notwithstanding anything in this
Agreement to the contrary, the communications equipment excludes any
item not shown on the Site Plan.

   F.   The volume of the enclosure and the above ground portion of its
pad as shown in the Site Plan is                Cubic feet.

   G.   The parcel is currently improved with an approximately
             foot tall [electrical/traffic signal/street light/antenna
support] pole (the “Pole”) owned by [City/Utility].

   H.   Provider has entered into a certain
                                                (the “Pole Antenna
Agreement”) with Pole Owner dated
                                         whereby Provider has obtained
permission from Pole Owner to use the existing Pole in the manner
described in this Agreement or Provider proposes to replace the existing
Pole with a new Pole that Pole Owner will own.

   I.   In order to install the communications equipment, Provider
desires to construct supporting improvements and perform all other work
shown on the Site Plan (collectively the “Project”).

   J.   Provider shall complete the entire Project and put the
communications equipment in full operation no later than one hundred
eighty (180) calendar days after the date of the issuance of the
encroachment permit (the “completion deadline”), or otherwise abandons
its application request.

   K.   City desires to grant to Provider a license to install,
maintain, operate and repair the communications equipment (the
“Permitted Uses”) subject to the requirements of this Agreement.

   L.   The recitals are all incorporated herein by reference as if set
out in full.

TERMS

   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing Recitals and the
mutual promises and covenants set forth herein, and for other
consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged,
the Parties agree as follows:

   1.   License Terms. City hereby grants to Provider a license to use
the Use Areas as follows:

      A.   Terms Incorporated. The terms are all incorporated herein by
reference as if set out in full. Provider warrants and represents that
provider has read and agrees to the recitals and the terms. Capitalized
terms used but not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings
assigned by the recitals and the terms.

      B.   Terms Application. Provider shall comply with all of the
terms. Without limitation, the terms shall apply to the Use Areas as
follows:

         i.   Provider’s Boundary Plan Responsibility. It is Provider’s
responsibility before signing this Agreement to ensure that the Boundary
Plan is prepared as follows:

            a.   Provider shall insure that the Boundary Plan clearly
depicts all portions of the parcel that Provider desires to use and that
each such area is clearly shown on the Boundary Plan and labeled to
clearly indicate which of the categories of exclusive areas or shared
areas set out in the standard terms applies to the area.

            b.   If the Boundary Plan does not clearly show any portion
of the parcel as one of the categories of exclusive areas or shared
areas set out in the terms, then such portion of the parcel is not part
of the Use Areas and Provider may not use such portion of the parcel,
even if the use is discussed in the terms.

            c.   Any exclusive area or shared area described or named in
the terms that is not clearly depicted and correctly labeled on the
Boundary Plan is excluded from this Agreement and unavailable for
Provider’s use.

            d.   Any portion of the Boundary Plan or the Site Plan that
indicates a Provider use of the parcel that is not one of the exclusive
areas or shared areas specifically enumerated in the terms is excluded
from this Agreement and not available for Provider’s use.

            e.   All work, improvements and equipment within an
exclusive area or shared area is limited to the purposes enumerated in
the terms for that particular exclusive area or shared area.

            f.   This Agreement does not allow use of any land other
than the specified portions of the parcel that are exclusive areas or
shared areas.

            g.   Any change to the Boundary Plan after City executes
this Agreement is void unless it is memorialized in a formal amendment
to this Agreement.

         ii.   Site Plan. It is Provider’s responsibility before signing
this Agreement to ensure that the Site Plan correctly shows the work
that Provider intends to perform, that the Site Plan correctly shows all
improvements and equipment that Provider intends be located on the Use
Areas, that the Site Plan shows no work, improvements or equipment
outside the exclusive areas and shared areas properly depicted and
labeled on the Boundary Plan, and that all work, improvements and
equipment is encompassed within the purposes enumerated in the terms for
that particular exclusive area or shared area. Any work, improvements or
equipment not conforming to all the foregoing is prohibited, even if it
is clearly shown on the Site Plan or discussed in the terms. Any
refinement or other change to the Site Plan after City executes this
Agreement is void unless Provider obtains Provider’s approval of the
change pursuant to the plans approval processes set out in the terms and
pursuant to all applicable regulatory requirements.

         iii.   Term of Agreement. The term of this Agreement is as
stated in Section 1 License Terms.

         iv.   Provider’s Payments. Provider shall pay City the amounts
described in the terms.

         v.   Use Restrictions. Provider shall comply with the use
restrictions set out in the terms.

         vi.   Encroachment Permits. This Agreement constitutes an
“Encroachment Permit” under Chapter 13, Volume I of the Apache Junction
City Code to the extent of granting permission for the communications
equipment to exist on the parcel but not to allow any construction or
other work of any description in the ROW or to allow obstruction of
traffic or alteration of City’s improvements. Before performing any work
on the ROW, Provider shall obtain the following additional encroachment
permits, as applicable:

            ∙   Permission to work in the ROW.

            ∙    Traffic Control Plan.

            ∙    Any other applicable permits regarding work in the ROW.

         vii.   Compliance with Law. Provider acknowledges that this
Agreement does not constitute, and City has not promised or offered, any
type of waiver of, or agreement to waive (or show any type of
forbearance, priority or favoritism to Provider with regard to) any law,
ordinance, power, regulation, tax, assessment or other legal requirement
now or hereafter imposed by the City of Apache Junction or any other
governmental body upon or affecting Provider’s use of the parcel. For
example, Provider shall comply with all building and ROW codes,
ordinances and policies.

   2.   City’s Initial information. Unless and until City gives notice
otherwise, City’s contract administrator shall be the City Engineer.

   3.   Provider’s Initial Information. Unless and until Provider gives
notice otherwise Provider’s network operations center phone number is (
) . Provider’s address for notices shall be: [NAME, STREET ADDRESS,
CITY, STATE, ZIP]. Provider’s billing address for routine billing
invoices shall be: [NAME, STREET ADDRESS, CITY, STATE, ZIP].

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the
date first set forth above.

                     PROVIDER:

                     [COMPANY NAME, INC.], an Arizona

                     [corporation/limited liability company]

                                                                                                      

                     By: [Name]

                     Its: [Title]

                     CITY:

                     CITY OF APACHE JUNCTION, ARIZONA, an

                     Arizona municipal corporation

                                                                                                      

                     By:
                                                                           

                     Its: City Engineer

 

STATE OF                                 )

               ) ss.

County of                                    )

The foregoing was subscribed and sworn to before me this
                      day of                                       ,
20         , by                                                   as
                                            of [Company Name], an
Arizona [corporation/limited liability company].

                                                                                                

                                                 Notary Public

My Commission Expires:

                                                              

STATE OF                                 )

               ) ss.

County of                                    )

The foregoing was subscribed and sworn to before me this
                      day of                                       ,
20         , by                                                   City
Engineer of the city of Apache Junction, Arizona, an Arizona municipal
corporation.

                                                                                                

                                                Notary Public

My Commission Expires:

                                                              

   EXHIBIT A

   BOUNDARY PLAN

 

 

   EXHIBIT B

   SITE PLAN

 

 

   EXHIBIT B

   STANDARDS FOR LETTERS OF CREDIT

In addition to any other requirements imposed upon a letter of credit
(the “Letter of Credit”) issued pursuant to these Standard Terms, each
Letter of Credit shall meet and be governed by the following additional
standards and requirements:

   A.   Letter of Credit Requirements. The Letter of Credit shall be
printed on Bank Safety Paper. The following terms and no others shall be
stated on the face of the Letter of Credit:

      i.   The Letter of Credit is clean, unconditional, and
irrevocable.

      ii.   The Letter of Credit is payable to City upon presentation of
the City’s draft.

      iii.   City may make partial draws upon the Letter of Credit.

      iv.   The Letter of Credit is conditioned for payment solely upon
presentation of a sight draft and a copy of the Letter of Credit.

      v.   Within ten (10) calendar days after City’s draft on the
Letter of Credit is honored, City must make the original of the Letter
of Credit available to the issuer.

      vi.   The issuer specifies a telefax number, email address, and
street address at which City may present drafts on the Letter of Credit.

      vii.   The Letter of Credit is valid until a specified date.

      viii.   The Letter of Credit will be automatically renewed for
successive one (1) year periods, unless at least one hundred twenty
(120) calendar days prior to expiration the issuer notifies City in
writing, by either registered or certified mail, that issuer elects not
to renew the Letter of Credit for the additional period. In the event of
such notification, any then unused portion of the Letter of Credit shall
be available by draft on or before the then current expiration date.

      ix.   The Letter of Credit is otherwise subject to the most recent
edition of the Uniform Customs and Practices for Documentary Credits,
published by the International Chamber of Commerce.

      x.   The Letter of Credit need not be transferable.

   B.   Approved Forms. The form of the Letter of Credit and of drafts
upon the Letter of Credit shall be as follows:

      i.   Except as approved in writing by City’s Engineer or designee,
the form of the Letter of Credit shall be in the form set out below.

      ii.   Except as approved in writing by City’s Engineer or
designee, the form of drafts upon the Letter of Credit shall be in the
form set out below.

   C.   Issuer Requirements. The issuer of the Letter of Credit shall
meet all of the following requirements:

      i.   The issuer shall be a federally insured financial institution
with offices in one of its branches within the City of Apache Junction
city limits, at which drafts upon the Letter of Credit may be presented.

      ii.   The issuer shall be a member of the New York Clearing House
Association or a commercial bank or trust company satisfactory to City.

      iii.   The issuer shall have a net worth of not less than $1
billion.

LETTER OF CREDIT

                                       Date                                                 

                                       Letter of Credit
No.                        

City of Apache Junction

300 E. Superstition Blvd.

Apache Junction, A2 85119

Dear Sir or Madam:

We hereby establish our clean, unconditional and irrevocable Letter of
Credit in your favor at the request and for the account of
                        in the aggregate amount of
                                                              
($                          ), available upon presentation of your draft
in the form attached hereto as Schedule 1.

We will honor each draft presented to us in compliance with the terms of
this Letter of Credit. Partial draws are permitted. Each draft must be
accompanied by a copy of this Letter of Credit. Within ten calendar (10)
days after we honor your draft, you must make the original of this
Letter of Credit available to us upon which we may endorse our payment.
Drafts may be presented by any of the following means:

   1.   By telefax to ( )

   2.   By email to
                                                                                                           

   3.   By hand or overnight courier service delivery to: [This address
must be in Pinal County, Arizona.]

                                                                             

                                                                             

                                                                             

   4.   By hand or overnight courier service delivery to: [This address
need not be in Pinal County, Arizona]

                                                                             

                                                                             

                                                                             

This Letter of Credit is valid until
                                       , 20        and shall thereafter
be automatically renewed for successive one (1) year periods, unless at
least one hundred twenty calendar (120) days prior to expiration we
notify you in writing, by either registered or certified mail, that we
elect not to renew the Letter of Credit for such additional period. In
the event of such notification, any then unused portion of the Letter of
Credit shall be available upon your presenting to us your draft on or
before the then current expiration date.

This Letter of Credit is subject to the UCP600. This Letter of Credit is
not assignable.

                                                                                                                                                           
Bank Name

                                                                                                                                                           
Bank Officer’s Signature               Bank Officer’s Name (printed)

                                                                                                                                                           
Bank Officer’s Title                     Bank Telephone Number

LETTER OF CREDIT ENCROACHMENT DEMAND

To:                                                                                       

                                                                                            

                                                                                            

From:                                                         

    300 East Superstition Blvd.

    Apache Junction, AZ 85119

                                       Date:                                                    

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Pursuant to your Credit
No.                                                  , the City of
Apache Junction hereby demands cash payment in the amount of
                                                                     

($                                                                             ).

Please make your payment to the City of Apache Junction in the form of a
wire deposit to:

                                                                                            

                                                                                            

                                                                                            

If such deposit cannot be accomplished immediately for any reason,
please make your payment in the form of a cashier’s check issued by your
institution and delivered to me at the address listed above.

I certify that I am the
                                                           for the City
of Apache Junction.

If there is any imperfection or defect in this draft or its
presentation, please inform me immediately at (480)
                                    so that I can correct it. Also,
please notify the City Attorney at (480) 474-5105.

Thank you,

                                                                                            

                                                                                            

City of Apache Junction

EXHIBIT C

ASSUMPTION OF ANTENNA SITE RIGHTS-OF-WAY LICENSE AGREEMENT

                                                   Regarding
                                                     

This assumption is made pursuant to paragraph 16 (E) of that certain
Antenna Site Rights-of-Way License Agreement (“Agreement”) between City
of Apache Junction, an Arizona municipal corporation (“City”) and,
                                                                                
(“Provider”) dated                                               .

                                                                                                   ,
(“Assignee”), having acquired the rights of the Provider under the
Agreement, hereby assumes the Agreement, agrees to be bound thereby, and
obligates itself to perform the terms and conditions of the Agreement,
all in favor of City. The person signing this document on behalf of
Assignee warrants to City his authority to do so.

Dated:
                                                                                        

                                          ASSIGNEE:

                                                                                                     

                                          a                                                           

                                           By:                                                        

                                          Its:                                                         

STATE OF                                 )

               ) ss.

County of                                    )

The foregoing was subscribed and sworn to before me this
                      day of                                       ,

20         , by                                                   as
                                            of [Company Name], an
Arizona [corporation/limited liability company].

                                                                                                

                                                Notary Public

My Commission Expires:

                                                                 

 

(Ord. 1453, passed 12-5-2017)

CHAPTER 14: CABLE SYSTEMS

      Article

         14-1.   CABLE TV SYSTEMS

ARTICLE 14-1: CABLE TV SYSTEMS

Section

   14-1-1   Title

   14-1-2   Intent and purpose

   14-1-3   Definitions

   14-1-4   Authority to grant license; license required; non-exclusive
license

   14-1-5   Application procedures

   14-1-6   Standards for granting or denying license applications

   14-1-7   License agreement required

   14-1-8   Operating requirements for cable systems

   14-1-9   Fees, bonds, letters of credit, liquidated damages and
appeals

   14-1-10   Termination and revocation

   14-1-11   Renewal

   14-1-12   Transfers and change of control

   14-1-13   Indemnity and insurance

   14-1-14   Administration

   14-1-15   General provisions

   14-1-16   Rights reserved to Council

§ 14-1-1 TITLE.

   This chapter shall be entitled “City of Apache Junction Cable TV
Systems”.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-2 INTENT AND PURPOSE.

   It is the intent of the city to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare by providing for the grant of one or more licenses for
the construction and operation of a cable TV system; to provide for the
regulation of each cable TV system by the city; to provide for the
payment of fees and other valuable consideration by a licensee to the
city for the privilege of using the public rights-of-way for
constructing and operating a cable TV system; to promote the widespread
availability of cable TV service to city residents wherever economically
feasible, including, but not limited to those who reside in multi-family
buildings and in rural communities; to encourage the development of
cable TV service as a means of communication between and among the
members of the public and public institutions; and to encourage the
provision of diverse information to the community over cable TV.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-3 DEFINITIONS.

   For purposes of this chapter, the following words, abbreviations and
their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. Words not
defined are given the meaning in § 602 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. §
522, and, if none, their common and ordinary meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include
the future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and
words in the singular number include the plural number. The words MUST
and SHALL are mandatory and the word MAY is permissive.

   ACCESS CHANNEL. Any channel set aside under the license agreement for
public use, educational use or governmental use without a charge to the
user by the licensee for channel usage. An ACCESS CHANNEL may be
scheduled or may be operated so that any member of the general public
may cablecast.

   ACTIVATED CHANNELS. Those channels engineered at the headend of a
cable TV system for the provision of services generally available to
residential subscribers of the cable TV system, regardless of whether
those services actually are provided, including any channel designated
for public, education or governmental use.

   ACTUAL COST. The actual cost to the licensee of materials and labor
necessary to perform installation, construction or maintenance of
facilities.

   AFFILIATE. Any person who owns or controls, is owned or controlled
by, or is under common ownership or control with the licensee.

   APPLICANT. Any person that applies for a license.

   APPLICATION. A proposal to construct and operate a cable TV system
within the city, transfer a license, renew a license or modify a
license. An application includes the initial proposal plus all
subsequent amendments or supplements to the proposal and relevant
correspondence.

   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any service tier that includes the
retransmission of local television broadcast signals.

   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 U.S.C. §§
521 et seq.

   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons that is issued a
license by the licensing authority to construct, operate and maintain a
cable TV system in the public rights-of-way.

   CABLE SERVICE. The one way transmission to subscribers of video
programming or other programming service and subscriber interaction, if
any, that is required for the selection or use of the video programming
or other programming service.

   CABLE TV SYSTEM or SYSTEM. Any facility consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and
control equipment that is designed to provide cable service that
includes video programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers
within a community. CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM does not include:

      (1)   A facility that serves fewer than fifty subscribers.

      (2)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way.

      (3)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations.

      (4)   A facility of a common carrier that is subject, in whole or
in part, to 47 United States Code sections 201 through 276, except that
the facility is considered a cable TV system, other than for purposes of
47 United States Code section 541(c), to the extent the facility is used
in the transmission of video programming directly to subscribers, unless
the extent of the use is solely to provide interactive on-demand
services.

      (5)   An open video system that complies with 47 United States
Code section 573.

      (6)   A facility of an electric utility that is used solely for
operating its electric utility system.

   CHANNEL. A time or frequency slot or technical equivalent on the
cable TV system in a specified format, discretely identified and capable
of carrying full motion color video and audio, and may include other
non-video subcarriers and digital information.

   CHANNEL EQUIVALENT. The system capacity required to provide the
transmission of a video signal, with accompanying audio, that is in
digital format and capable of producing sound and picture of NTSC
quality or better, based on the compression technology then in use in
the cable TV system.

   CITY. The City of Apache Junction, an Arizona municipal corporation
(also referred to the (LICENSING AUTHORITY), in its present boundaries,
and its future boundaries as increased or decreased by law.

   CITY MANAGER. The chief executive officer of the city or his or her
designee.

   COMPLAINT. A subscriber or citizen issue, presented in verbal or
written form, to the licensee or the city relating to any regulatable
aspect of the licensee’s performance under this chapter.

   CONSUMER PRICE INDEX or CPI. The annual average of the Consumer Price
Index for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U), as published by the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.

   CONTROLLING INTEREST. A business entity’s operational authority,
which is not limited to majority stock ownership, but also includes
actual working and management (day-to-day) control in whatever manner
exercised.

   CONVERTER. A tuning device which converts transmitted signals to a
frequency which permits their reception on a television set.

   COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Apache Junction.

   DAY. Calendar day.

   DWELLING UNIT. Any separate and distinct structure or part thereof
which exists in finished form, occupied or capable of year-round
occupation, and serves as a residence to one or more persons. Included
in this definition, but not limited to are: all single family homes,
each apartment unit, each condominium unit, patio homes, guest quarters
and similar type structures.

   EASEMENT. Property interest which allows the erection, construction
or maintenance of a cable TV system, its structures, equipment or
facilities.

   EXPANDED BASIC SERVICE. The next most highly penetrated tier of cable
service programming above the Basic Service tier excluding premium or
pay-per-view services.

   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price that a willing buyer would pay to a
willing seller.

   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.

   FEDERAL AGENCY. Any agency of the United States.

   GROSS REVENUES. Amounts in whatever form and from all sources derived
directly or indirectly by Licensee and/or an affiliate from the
operation of licensee’s cable system to provide cable services within a
license area. GROSS REVENUES include, by way of illustration and not
limitation:

      (1)   Fees for cable services, regardless of whether such cable
services are provided to residential or commercial subscribers,
including revenues derived from the provision of all cable services
(including but not limited to pay or premium cable services, digital
cable services, pay-per-view, pay-per-event, audio channels and
video-on-demand cable services);

      (2)   Installation, disconnection, reconnection, downgrade,
upgrade, maintenance, repair, or similar charges associated with
subscriber cable service;

      (3)   Fees paid to licensee for channels designated for
commercial/leased access use, which shall be allocated on a pro rata
basis using total cable service subscribers within the license area;

      (4)   Converter, remote control, and other cable service equipment
rentals, leases, or sales;

      (5)   Payments for pre-paid cable services and/or equipment;

      (6)   Advertising Revenues as defined herein;

      (7)   Fees including, but not limited to: (1) late fees,
convenience fees and administrative fees which shall be allocated on a
pro rata basis using cable services revenue as a percentage of total
licensee revenues within the license area; (2) license fees; (3) the FCC
user fee and (4) public, education and government (“PEG”) fees if
included on subscriber billing statements;

      (8)   Revenues from program guides; and

      (9)   Commissions from home shopping channels and other cable
service revenue sharing arrangements which shall be allocated on a pro
rata basis using total cable service subscribers within the license
area.

      (10)   GROSS REVENUES shall not be net of: (1) any operating
expense; (2) any accrual, including without limitation, any accrual for
commissions to affiliates; or (3) any other expenditure, regardless of
whether such expense, accrual, or expenditure reflects a cash payment.

   GROSS REVENUES, however, shall not be double counted. Revenues of
both licensee and an affiliate that represent a transfer of funds
between the licensee and the affiliate, and that would otherwise
constitute GROSS REVENUES of both the licensee and the affiliate, shall
be counted only once for purposes of determining GROSS REVENUES.
Similarly, operating expenses of the licensee which are payable from
licensee’s revenue to an affiliate and which may otherwise constitute
revenue of the affiliate, shall not constitute additional GROSS REVENUES
for the purpose of this license. GROSS REVENUES shall include amounts
earned by affiliates only to the extent that licensee could, in concept,
have earned such types of revenue in connection with the operation of
licensee’s cable TV system to provide cable services and recorded such
types of revenue in its books and records directly, but for the
existence of affiliates. GROSS REVENUES shall not include sales taxes
imposed by law on subscribers that the licensee is obligated to collect.
With the exception of recovered bad debt, GROSS REVENUES shall not
include bad debt.

         (a)   ADVERTISING REVENUES shall mean amounts revenues derived
from sales of advertising that are made available to licensee’s cable
system subscribers within the license area and shall be allocated on a
pro rata basis using total cable service subscribers reached by the
advertising. Whenever licensee acts as the principal in advertising
arrangements involving representation firms and/or advertising
interconnects and/or other multichannel video providers, advertising
revenues subject to license fees shall include the total amount from
advertising that is sold, and not be reduced by any operating expenses
(e.g., “revenue offsets” and “contra expenses” and “administrative
expenses” or similar expenses), or by fees, commissions, or other
amounts paid to or retained by representation firms, other multichannel
video providers, involved with sales of advertising on the cable system
within the license area.

         (b)   GROSS REVENUES shall not include:

            1.   Actual cable services bad debt write-offs, except any
portion which is subsequently collected which shall be allocated on a
pro rata basis using cable services revenue as a percentage of total
licensee revenues within the license area;

            2.   Any taxes and/or fees on services furnished by licensee
imposed on subscribers by any municipality, state or other governmental
unit, provided that the license fee, the FCC User fee and PEG fee shall
not be regarded as such a tax or fee;

            3.   Launch fees and marketing co-op fees; and

            4.   Revenues associated with the provision of managed
network services provided under separate business contact.

            5.   Unaffiliated third party advertising sales agency fees
which are reflected as a deduction from revenues, except when licensee
acts as a principle as specified in paragraph (A) immediately above.

         (c)   To the extent revenues are derived by licensee for the
provision of a discounted bundle of services which includes cable
services and non-cable services, licensee shall calculate revenues to be
included in GROSS REVENUES using a methodology that allocates revenue on
a pro rata basis when comparing the bundled service price and its
components to the sum of the published rate card prices for such
components. Except as required by specific federal, state or local law,
it is expressly understood that equipment may be subject to inclusion in
the bundled price at full rate card value. This calculation shall be
applied to every bundled service package containing cable service from
which licensee derives revenues in the license area. The city reserves
its right to review and to challenge licensee’s calculations. Example:
Prior to any bundle-related price reduction, if cable service is valued
at 50% of the total of the services to be offered in a bundle, then
cable service is to be valued and reported as being no less than 50% of
the price of the bundled service total.

   INSTALLATION. The connection of the cable TV system from a remote
terminal to a subscriber’s residence or place of business.

   INTERACTIVE ON-DEMAND SERVICES. A service providing video programming
to subscribers over switched networks on an on-demand, point-to-point
basis, but does not include services providing video programming
prescheduled by the programming provider.

   LABOR COSTS. Actual cost to licensee of contract labor or hourly
wages or apportioned salaries of licensee’s employees plus fully loaded
labor costs.

   LICENSE. An initial authorization, or renewal thereof (including a
renewal of an authorization which has been granted subject to Title 47
U.S.C. § 546), issued by a licensing authority, whether such
authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, resolution,
contract, certificate, agreement or otherwise, which authorizes the
construction or operation of a cable TV system.

   LICENSE AGREEMENT. A contract entered into in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter between the city and a licensee that sets
forth the terms and conditions under which the license will be
exercised.

   LICENSE AREA. The entire existing territorial limits of the city and
any area annexed thereto during the term of the license.

   LICENSE FEE. As defined in Title VI of the Federal Communications Act
of 1934, 47 U.S.C. § 542, as amended.

   LICENSEE. Any person who has been granted a license by the city or
any lawful transferee or successor interest.

   LICENSING AUTHORITY. The City of Apache Junction.

   LIVING UNIT. A distinct address in the network inventory system where
the cable operator currently has, had in the past, or had planned to
provide telephone or high-speed internet service to a customer. This
includes, but is not limited to, single family homes, multi-dwelling
(e.g., apartment buildings and condominiums) units and business
locations.

   MATERIAL COSTS. Actual cost of material to licensee, including sales
tax and freight paid, plus handling and processing charges equal to 3%
of material costs.

   MULTICHANNEL VIDEO PROGRAMMING DISTRIBUTOR. A person such as, but not
limited to, a cable operator, a multichannel multipoint distribution
service, a direct broadcast satellite service or a television
receive-only satellite program distributor, who makes available for
purchase, by subscribers or customers, multiple channels of video
programming.

   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. Those hours during which most similar
businesses in the community are open to serve customers. In all cases,
NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS must include some evening hours at least 1 night
per week and/or some weekend hours.

   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Those service conditions which are
within the control of the cable operator. Those conditions which are not
within the control of the cable operator include, but are not limited
to, natural disasters, civil disturbances, power outages, telephone
network outages and severe or unusual weather conditions. Those
conditions which are within the control of the cable operator include,
but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view events, rate
increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and maintenance,
upgrade or rebuild of the cable TV system.

   OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE. Information that a cable operator makes
available to all subscribers generally.

   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
venture or organization of any kind and the lawful trustee, successor,
assignee, transferee or personal representative thereof.

   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface, the air space above the surface,
and the area below the surface of any public street, highway, lane,
path, alley, sidewalk, boulevard, drive, bridge, tunnel, park, parkway,
waterway, public utility easement or similar property now or hereafter
held by the city, which, consistent with the purposes for which it was
dedicated, may be used for the purpose of installing and maintaining the
cable TV system. No reference herein to PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall be
deemed to be a representation or guarantee by the city that its interest
or other right to control the use of the property is sufficient to
permit its use for those purposes, and a licensee shall be deemed to
gain only those rights to use as are properly in the city and as the
city may have the right and power to give. PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY, for the
purpose of this chapter, do not include buildings, parks, poles, or
similar facilities, or property owned by or leased to the city,
including by way of example and not limitation, structures in the PUBLIC
RIGHTS-OF-WAY, such as utility poles and light poles.

   REMOTE TERMINAL. A “Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexer”
(“DSLAM”) capable of offering cable TV services to subscribers.

   SCHOOL. Any public educational institution, which is accredited by a
nationally recognized institution, including primary and secondary
schools, colleges and universities.

   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The loss of picture or sound on one or more
cable channels or channel equivalents.

   SERVICE TIER. A category of cable service or other services provided
by a cable operator and for which a separate rate is charged by the
cable operator.

   STANDARD DROP. That cable connection which requires no more than
150-foot drop measured from the ground block on the subscriber’s home or
place of business to the nearest active tap on the cable TV system,
(which cannot be more than 4,000 feet from a Remote Terminal) involving
only one outlet and standard materials and does not involve a wallfish.
In addition, a STANDARD DROP shall exclude custom installation work
including specific subscriber requested work that requires nonstandard
inventory or cable routing that requires construction methods exceeding
reasonable underground or aerial work.

   STATE. Any state or political subdivision, or agency thereof.

   SUBSCRIBER. Any individual or entity legally receiving, for any
purpose, cable services of the licensee’s cable TV system.

   SYSTEM OUTAGE. A service interruption affecting more than ten
subscribers.

   SYSTEM REBUILD or REBUILD. A major improvement or enhancement in the
technology or service capabilities made by the licensee to the cable TV
system.

   TWO-WAY CAPABILITY. The incorporation in a cable TV system of all
appropriate design and engineering characteristics so that two-way
transmission, including addressability, over the system can be
implemented with a minimum of expense. The two-way capability
specifically includes, but is not limited to, services for internet
access and pay-per-view as well as emerging technologies.

   USABLE ACTIVATED CHANNELS. Activated channels of a cable TV system,
except those channels whose use for the distribution of broadcast
signals would conflict with technical and safety regulations as
determined by the FCC.

   VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-4 AUTHORITY TO GRANT LICENSE; LICENSE REQUIRED; NON-EXCLUSIVE
LICENSE.

   (A)   Pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-505 et seq. and as amended, the council
has the authority to issue non-exclusive licenses to construct, install,
maintain and operate cable TV systems within the city, and to regulate
those cable operations. The council’s authority is also based in common
law pursuant to the city’s ownership of the fee simple title to the
public rights-of-way of the city as well as its legal interest in
easements and licenses granted to it by property owners for the purposes
of municipal use.

   (B)   No provision of this chapter shall be deemed or construed to
require the granting of a license.

   (C)   No person shall construct, install or maintain a cable TV
system within the public rights-of-way in

the city, or within any other public property of the city, unless a
license agreement authorizing such use of the public rights-of-way or
property is in full force and effect.

   (D)   All licenses issued by the council shall be non-exclusive, and
the council specifically reserves the right to grant such additional
licenses for cable TV systems as the council deems appropriate.

   (E)   Any terms and conditions of agreements between licensee and
other entities or municipalities shall not effect any of the terms and
conditions including but not limited to the rates, services and work
schedules, set forth in a license agreement negotiated between the city
and licensee.

   (F)   A license shall not relieve the licensee of any obligation to
obtain and comply with any necessary permit or other forms of
authorization required by the city code or other applicable laws and
regulations and shall not convey rights other than as specified in this
Chapter 14, or in the license agreement; no rights shall pass by
implication.

   (G)   Any license shall authorize the licensee to engage in the
business of operating a cable TV system and providing cable service in
the city, and may authorize non-cable service in the city to the extent
not prohibited by state and federal law, and to erect, install,
construct, prepare, replace, reconstruct, maintain and keep in any
public rights-of-way such poles, wire, cable, conductors, ducts,
conduit, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, attachments and other
facilities as may be necessary and appurtenant to the cable TV system.
In addition, any license shall authorize the licensee to use and operate
such facilities rented or leased from other persons, including but not
limited to any public utility or other licensee holding a valid license
or permitted to do business in the city; provided, however, that:

      (1)   The safety, functioning, and appearance of the public
rights-of-way and the safety of other persons shall not be adversely
affected by the installation, construction, operation or removal of such
facilities necessary for a cable TV system; and

      (2)   The cost of the installation, construction, operation or
removal of such facilities shall be borne by the licensee.

   (H)   Nothing in this Chapter 14 shall relieve the licensee of any
obligation to obtain any authorizations or licenses from the city to use
the public rights-of-way to provide non-cable service, or to comply with
any city rules, regulations and standards with respect to the use of the
public rights-of-way for the provision of such non-cable service. The
provisions of this chapter 14 are not a bar to the imposition of
similar, different or additional city imposed rules, regulations and
standards with respect to the use of the public rights-of-way in
connection with the provision of non-cable service. In addition to other
rights it has, the city may establish such rules, regulations and
standards related to the provision of such non-cable service, to the
extent not prohibited by state and federal law, as required to protect
the public interest.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-5 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.

   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, install, maintain or operate
a cable TV system within the city who is not lawfully the holder of a
license to provide cable service in the city as of the effective date of
this chapter shall submit an application to the council addressed to and
filed with the city clerk. This application shall consist of a letter
and proposed license agreement. All applications and proposals filed
with the city clerk shall remain the property of the city and shall
constitute a public record pursuant to state law. The council reserves
the right to issue a request for proposals for cable TV system services
at any time. Applications submitted pursuant to a request for proposals
may be returned as non-responsive if they do not comply with all
requirements of the request.

   (B)   Applications for consent to transfer a license or an interest
in a license must conform to the requirements of A.J.C.C. Vol. I, §
14-1-12, while applications for renewal, must conform to A.J.C.C. Vol.
I, § 14-1-11.

   (C)   An application for modification of a license agreement must at
a minimum, include the following information:

      (1)   The specific modification requested;

      (2)   The justification for the requested modification, including
the impact of the requested modification on subscribers and others, and
the impact on the applicant if the modification is not approved;

      (3)   A statement as to whether the modification sought is
pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 545, and, if so, a demonstration that the
requested modification meets the legal standards of that section; and

      (4)   Any other information necessary for the council to make a
determination.

   (D)   To be acceptable for filing, an application must be submitted
with any required filing fee, be properly executed on the forms
prescribed by the council, and contain the information required by any
required application form, this chapter and meet the requirements of any
applicable request for proposals.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-6 STANDARDS FOR GRANTING OR DENYING LICENSE APPLICATIONS.

   (A)   All applications and proposals received shall be placed in a
public file with the city clerk. The council shall publish notice of a
public hearing date when the council will consider an application and
the proposal in a newspaper of general circulation once a week for two
consecutive weeks, the first notice being published at least fourteen
(14) days before the public hearing takes place. The notice shall
indicate the following:

      (1)   The proposed service or changes in service;

      (2)   Proposed changes in ownership;

      (3)   Where the application may be viewed, in person or online;
and

      (4)   The date and location of the public hearing.

   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published and held in accordance
with the provision of A.R.S. § 9-507(B). All interested parties shall be
afforded a reasonable opportunity to be heard.

   (C)   The council shall give full consideration to each application
and proposal. The following factors may be deemed appropriate and shall
be considered:

      (1)   The financial qualifications of the applicant and its
ability to construct and operate the proposed system;

      (2)   The need for and quality of the service proposed, including
rates to subscribers, whether or not rates are to be regulated;

      (3)   The technical, legal and character qualifications of the
applicant, including applicant’s willingness to abide by the limitations
of this chapter;

      (4)   Technical and performance adequacy of the proposed system
design, plant and equipment, including any specific knowledge or
experience the Council may have with the applicant;

      (5)   Where an applicant proposes to overbuild an existing cable
system, the economic and technical feasibility of multiple cable TV
systems, the impact on the existing licensee’s system and the public
interest if the application were to be granted; and

      (6)   All other factors which may affect the public interest.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-7 LICENSE AGREEMENT REQUIRED.

   (A)   If council approves the application and proposal, the terms
shall be set forth in a written license agreement which shall also be
considered at the same public hearing. The license agreement shall
incorporate all terms and provisions of this chapter. The licensee shall
expressly and specifically agree to accept and be bound by the terms of
this chapter.

   (B)   A license agreement shall have the minimum following
characteristics, but the city and licensee may negotiate additional
terms and conditions consistent with A.J.C.C. Vol. I, § 14-1-4, state
and federal law:

      (1)   It authorizes use of the public rights-of-way for installing
cables, wires, lines and other facilities to operate a cable TV system,
but does not expressly or implicitly authorize the licensee to provide
service to, or install cable, wires, lines or any other equipment or
facilities upon property without owner consent (except for compatible
easements or rights-of-way pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 541(a)(2)), or to use
publicly or privately owned utility poles or conduits without a separate
agreement with the owners. It also authorizes the licensee to so use,
operate and provide similar facilities or properties rented, licensed or
leased from other persons, firms or corporations, including but not
limited to, any public utility or other licensee licensed or permitted
to do business in the city; provided, however, that neither the licensee
nor the third party shall be relieved of any regulation or obligation as
to its use of the facilities in the public rights-of-way.

      (2)   It is subject to the paramount right of use of the public
rights-of-way by the council and the public for public purposes. The
council reserves the right to authorize use of public rights-of-way to
other persons as it determines appropriate.

      (3)   It is nonexclusive and will not expressly or implicitly
preclude the issuance of other licenses to operate cable systems within
the city.

      (4)   It conveys no property right to the licensee or right to
renewal other than as may be required by state or federal law, and the
agreement is not a franchise.

      (5)   It constitutes a legally binding contract between the
licensee and the city once it is approved by the Council and executed by
both parties. A licensee contractually commits itself to comply with the
terms, conditions and provisions of the license agreement and with all
applicable laws, ordinances, codes, rules, regulations and orders.

      (6)   In no case shall the term of any license agreement exceed 15
years commencing on its effective date. A greater period of time is
prohibited.

      (7)   A licensee shall execute a hold harmless agreement as part
of the license agreement which shall set forth the obligation of the
licensee over and above the insurance requirements contained in the
license and this chapter.

      (8)   A licensee shall be subject to all laws, rules and
regulations of the State of Arizona and the United States Government.

      (9)   Any of the provisions of this chapter may be amended by the
council at any time. This chapter and the amended provisions shall be
applicable to all existing license agreements; provided, however, that
this chapter and the amended provisions shall not be applicable to an
existing agreement where it would contravene a contractual right of the
licensee under the license agreement.

      (10)   All notices and communications from a licensee to the
council pursuant to this chapter or a license agreement shall be sent to
the city manager unless the licensee is otherwise directed.

      (11)   Insofar as it is not inconsistent with or otherwise
preempted by federal or state regulations, the license agreement shall
grant the right and privilege to the licensee to provide non-cable
communications services. Insofar as it is not inconsistent with or
otherwise preempted by federal or state regulations, the council shall
retain all authority to regulate non-cable telecommunication services to
the extent necessary to protect the public interest and to ensure
compliance with all provisions of this chapter.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-8 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR CABLE SYSTEMS.

   A licensee shall conform to the following minimum standards relative
to the construction, operation and maintenance of a cable TV system in
the city. It is not the intent of this article to prevent any licensee
from providing more than the required minimum to meet the standards
listed below.

   (A)   Rights of individuals, subscribers and users.

      (1)   A cable TV system shall be operated in a manner consistent
with the principles of fairness and equal accessibility of facilities,
channels, studios and other services to all residents and other entities
having a legitimate use of the system. A licensee shall not discriminate
in terms of rates, terms of service or extension of service on the basis
of age, race, creed, sex, religion, national origin or marital status.
Nor shall a licensee fail to extend service to any part of the city on
the basis of the income of the residents. This provision shall not
restrict licensee’s ability to provide senior citizen, other similar
discounts, or seasonal service.

      (2)   A licensee shall maintain a business office open during
normal business hours with listed local or toll-free telephone numbers
to allow reasonable access by subscribers and members of the public. The
office shall be conveniently and centrally located but shall be no
further than 15 miles from Meridian Road where such road marks the
city’s western boundary. When the office is closed, an answering machine
or service, capable of receiving complaints and inquiries must be
employed. The office shall be open to the public between the hours of
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Mondays through Fridays, and 9:00 a.m. to 12:00
noon on Saturdays, during such hours licensee will provide staff to
field all subscriber questions, complaints, billing procedures and
exchange of converter boxes.

      (3)   Licensee shall maintain a written record listing date of all
complaints, identifying the subscriber or citizen, describing the nature
of the complaint and when and what action has been taken by the
licensee, if any, in response thereto. Such record shall be kept at the
licensee’s office and, subject to subscriber privacy laws, shall be
available for inspection during normal business hours without further
notice of demand of the city manager. A summary of such records must be
retained for not less than one year. The licensee shall notify each
subscriber at the time of initial subscription of the procedure for
reporting and resolving complaints.

      (4)   A licensee shall establish procedures for the investigation
and resolution of all complaints including, but not limited to, those
regarding the quality of service and equipment malfunction. A copy of
such procedures shall be provided to the city manager and/or council
upon request.

      (5)   A licensee must provide each subscriber at the time cable
service is installed, the following:

         (a)   Written instructions for placing a service call, filing a
complaint or requesting an adjustment, including the phone number and
address of licensee’s office;

         (b)   The telephone number of the city office responsible for
administration of the cable license;

         (c)   A schedule of rates and charges for all available
services;

         (d)   Copies of the service contract, including disconnect and
reconnect procedures and charges; and

         (e)   A subscriber handbook and upon request any other written
policies applicable to subscribers.

      (6)   A licensee shall establish and conform to the following
policy regarding refunds to subscribers and users:

         (a)   If the licensee collects a deposit or advance charge on
any service or equipment requested by a subscriber or user, the licensee
shall provide such service or equipment within 30 days of the collection
of the deposit or charge or it shall refund the deposit or charge within
5 days thereafter upon request of the subscriber. The subscriber must be
advised of this right of refund at the time the order is placed; and

         (b)   If any subscriber or user terminates any monthly service
during a period of time for which the subscriber or user has made an
annual or other payment in advance, the appropriate pro rata portion of
the payment shall be refunded by the licensee.

      (7)   The following requirements shall apply to disconnections:

         (a)   There shall be no charge for total disconnection of cable
service unless the charge was disclosed at the time the subscriber
ordered service. All cable communications equipment shall be removed
within a reasonable time from a subscriber’s property at the
subscriber’s request, such time not to exceed 30 days from the date of
the request; and

         (b)   If any subscriber fails to pay a properly due monthly
subscriber’s fee or other charge, the licensee may disconnect the
subscriber’s service outlet; provided, however, that the disconnection
shall not be effected until 30 days after the due date of the charges
and shall include a prior written notice to the subscriber of the intent
to disconnect. After disconnection, upon payment in full of all proper
charges or fees, including the payment of any reconnection charge, the
licensee shall promptly reinstate the service. The licensee may require
a 60 day prepayment of services as a condition to reconnection.

      (8)   Other than testing of the EAS system, a licensee may
interrupt service on the cable TV system only for good cause and for the
shortest time possible. No prior notice shall be required for the
performance of system maintenance work requiring a maximum of one hour
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.

      (9)   A licensee shall at all times comply with subscriber privacy
provisions of 47 U.S.C. § 551.

      (10)   No equipment shall be installed by the licensee for
subscriber service without first securing a service request from the
owner or resident of any private property involved, except in public
utility easements.

      (11)   A licensee shall not originate or knowingly permit
subliminal transmission at any time for any purpose whatsoever.

      (12)   A licensee shall make available leased access channels as
required under 47 U.S.C. § 532.

      (13)   A licensee shall strictly adhere to the equal employment
opportunity requirements of the FCC, 47 U.S.C. § 554, state statutes and
local regulations, and as the same may be amended from time to time.

   (B)   Cable system construction timetable.

      (1)   A cable system shall be constructed in accordance with the
provision of the license agreement.

      (2)   It is the policy of the council to require construction of a
cable system designed to serve subscribers in an area licensed by the
council as rapidly and expeditiously as possible. The licensee shall
immediately upon granting of the license agreement diligently pursue and
obtain all necessary permits from the appropriate governmental agencies,
utility companies and others as necessary to comply with the provision
of this chapter and other federal, state and city laws, codes and
resolutions.

      (3)   The city manager may require a licensee to report on
construction progress and provide information showing specifically
whether the construction schedule is being met and the reasons for the
delay. The city manager shall determine the format to be used for the
report and the frequency of reporting.

      (4)   Where appropriate and reasonable, a licensee shall schedule
construction activities to coordinate with any city construction on
streets so as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience to the public.

   (C)   Line extension policy. A licensee shall extend its cable TV
system in accordance with the provisions of its license agreement.

      (1)   Upon reasonable request for service by any person located
within any area of the city that meets density requirements of division
(C)(2) below, the licensee shall, within 30 days, furnish the requested
service to such person, unless prevented from providing the service due
to factors outside licensee’s control, such as permit restrictions,
private easement considerations and the like. If the service has not
been implemented within 60 days of the request, the city manager may
impose liquidated damages for each day thereafter.

      (2)   The licensee must extend and make cable service available to
every unserved living unit within 4,000 feet of a licensee’s remote
terminal or any area of the city reaching the minimum density of at
least 25 dwelling units per mile of plant as measured from licensee’s
nearest activated feeder line, whether the existing plant is aerial or
underground, except that the licensee shall not be required to install
cable where another authorized licensee has already done so.

      (3)   The licensee shall prevent unnecessary damage to streets and
property by installing underground cable or conduit in all new
subdivisions of five or more dwelling units within the license area at
the same time, in the same trench as telephone, electric or similar
services are installed.

      (4)   In new residential developments in which all the electric
power and telephone utilities are underground, the city may, in its sole
discretion, require that the following procedure apply with respect to
access to and utilization of underground easements:

         (a)   The developer shall be responsible for contacting and
surveying all licensees to ascertain which licensees desire (or,
pursuant to the terms and provisions of this chapter and any license
agreement, may be required) to provide cable service to that
development. The developer may establish a reasonable deadline to
receive responses from licensees. The final development map shall
indicate the licensees which have agreed to serve the development.

         (b)   If one or more licensees wish to provide service within
all or part of the development, they shall be accommodated in the joint
utilities trench on a nondiscriminatory shared basis. If fewer than two
licensees indicate interest, the developer shall provide conduit to
accommodate a minimum of two sets of cable television cables and
dedicate to the city any initially unoccupied conduit.

         (c)   The developer shall provide at least ten business days
notice of the date that utility trenches will be open to the licensees
that have agreed to serve the development. When the trenches are open,
such licensees shall have two business days to begin the installation of
their cables, and five business days after beginning installation to
complete installation.

         (d)   The final development map shall not be approved until the
developer submits evidence that:

            1.   It has notified each licensee that underground utility
trenches are to open as of an estimated date, and that each licensee
will be allowed access to such trenches, including trenches from
proposed streets to individual homes or home sites, on specified
nondiscriminatory terms and conditions; and

            2.   It has received a written notification from each
licensee that the licensee intends to install its facilities during the
open trench period on the specified terms and conditions, or such other
terms and conditions as are mutually agreeable to the developer and
licensee, or has received no reply from a licensee within ten days after
its notification to such licensee, in which case the licensee will be
deemed to have waived its opportunity to install facilities during the
open trench period.

         (e)   Sharing the joint utilities trench shall be subject to
compliance with state regulatory agency and utility standards. If the
compliance is not possible, the developer shall provide a separate
trench for the cable television cables, with the entire cost shared
among the participating licensee(s). With the concurrence of the
developer, the affected utilities and the licensee’s alternative
installation procedures, such as the use of deeper trenches, may be
utilized, subject to the requirements of applicable laws.

         (f)   Any licensee wishing to serve an area where the trenches
have been closed shall be responsible for its own trenching and
associated costs and shall repair all property to the condition which
existed prior to such trenching.

      (5)   The licensee must extend and make cable service available to
any resident requesting connection within the licensee’s authorized
license area at the regular installation charge provided that division
(C)(2) above is met.

   (D)   Construction and technical standards. The following general
requirements, which are not to be interpreted as imposing standards in
excess of FCC imposed limits, apply to all licensees.

      (1)   In those areas and portions of the license area where the
transmission and distribution facilities of the telephone company and
the electric company are underground or later placed underground, the
licensee shall likewise install its transmission facilities underground.

      (2)   In areas where facilities do not have to be underground, a
licensee shall not erect any new poles along any street or public
rights-of-way of the city except as may be reasonably required or
necessary to fill small gaps in the existing aerial utility systems and
only then with the advance approval of the city manager.

      (3)   All television signals transmitted on a cable TV system must
include any closed captioning information for the hearing impaired.
Antennas, supporting structures and outside plant used in the system
must be designed to comply with the recommendations of the Electronics
Industries Association and applicable federal and local regulations on
tower structures and outside plant.

      (4)   The licensee must perform at its expense any proof of
performance tests designed to demonstrate compliance with the
requirements of this chapter, the license agreement and the FCC. The
city manager may require periodic proof of performance tests to be
performed at the expense of the licensee. Upon request, the licensee
must provide the test results promptly to the city manager.

      (5)   The licensee must advise the city manager a minimum of 30
days in advance when a proof of performance test pursuant to 47 C.F.R.
76.605(a)(4) (or subsequently renumbered) is scheduled. The licensee
must also advise the city manager of its anticipated schedule for any
other FCC required testing a minimum of 30 days in advance of the
testing.

      (6)   A licensee must not design, install or operate its
facilities in a manner that will interfere with the signals of any FCC
licensed service, including but not limited to television, radio,
satellite, two-way and paging services, the electrical or telephone
system located in any portion of the city, the cable TV system of
another licensee, or individual or master antennas used for receiving
amateur radio television, radio or other FCC authorized signals.

      (7)   The system shall meet or exceed FCC requirements as set
forth in 47 C.F.R. 76(K). If federal law is subsequently amended or
minimum technical specifications are no longer mandated by the FCC, the
technical specifications in effect at the time of adoption of the
license agreement shall govern.

   (E)   Maintenance specifications.

      (1)   The licensee shall construct, install and maintain its cable
TV system in an orderly and workmanlike manner. The safety of the
general public, the licensee’s employees, the employees of the utility
companies and all nearby property owners shall be a primary concern.

      (2)   All cables are to be installed, to the maximum extent
possible, parallel with electric and telephone distribution facilities.
Licensee’s multiple-cable configurations shall be arranged in parallel
and bundled to the maximum extent possible.

      (3)   As between licensee and the city, the licensee shall be
solely and completely responsible for the actions taken by any
contractor or other agent employed to construct or install the
licensee’s facilities within the public rights-of-way as well as on
other public or private property.

      (4)   A licensee shall have available at all hours personnel
capable of responding to emergency conditions requiring immediate repair
to its cable facilities. The licensee shall be a member of the Blue
Stake Center, or otherwise comply with state underground law, for its
service area.

      (5)   In the event that licensee property or the facilities and
equipment of unauthorized cable communication providers has been
installed in a public rights-of-way without complying with the
requirements of this chapter, or the license has been terminated,
revoked or expired, or the use of any licensee property is discontinued
for any reason for a continuous period of two months, licensee or any
unauthorized cable communication provider, shall at its sole expense on
the demand of the city manager remove promptly from the public
rights-of-way all licensee or unauthorized cable communication provider
property other than that which the city manager may permit to be
abandoned in place absent any rights licensee has under state and
federal law. Upon such removal of subject property, licensee or
unauthorized cable communication provider shall promptly restore the
public rights-of-way or other public places from which the subject
property was removed to a condition as near as possible to its prior
condition. Subject property no longer in service may be left in place
with the approval of and in a manner prescribed by the city manager.
Upon abandonment of the property in place, licensee or unauthorized
cable communication provider shall deliver to the city manager an
instrument transferring ownership of the subject abandoned property to
the city. Any cost arising from compliance with this provision shall be
borne by the licensee or unauthorized cable communication provider.

   (F)   Use of public rights-of-way.

      (1)   A licensee must utilize, with the owner’s permission,
existing poles, conduits or such other facilities whenever possible.

      (2)   All transmission lines and other equipment must be installed
and located to minimize interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of public and private property owners. The council reserves
the right to issue the reasonable rules and regulations concerning the
installation and maintenance of cable TV systems in the public
rights-of-way, as may be consistent with this chapter, state and federal
law. In addition, licensee shall become a member of the Blue Stake
Center, or its functional equivalent, within 30 days following the
effective date of this agreement.

      (3)   The licensee shall have at all times up-to-date route maps
showing trunk and distribution lines. Licensee shall make all such maps
available for review by the appropriate city personnel and shall be
provided on at least a yearly basis. Licensee shall, in addition to the
paper maps, also provide the city with updated maps in a suitable
electronic format determined by the city at least every three months if
changes to the cable TV system have occurred during the three-month
period.

      (4)   All construction practices shall be in accordance with all
applicable sections of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970,
29 U.S.C. §§ 651 et seq., as amended, as well as other applicable laws.

      (5)   A licensee must remove, replace or modify at its own
expense, any of its facilities within any public rights-of-way or any
federally patented easement when required to do so by the city manager
to allow the city to change, maintain, repair, improve or eliminate a
public thoroughfare. Nothing in this article shall prevent licensee from
seeking and obtaining reimbursement from sources other than the city.

      (6)   In public rights-of-way where electrical and telephone
utility wiring are located underground, either at the time of initial
construction or subsequently, the cable must also be located underground
at the licensee’s expense. Between the public right-of-way and
subscriber’s residence, the cable must be located underground if both
electrical and telephone utility wiring are located underground. If
either electric or telephone are aerial, licensee may install aerial
cable except where a property owner requests underground installation at
the sole cost of the licensee.

      (7)   A licensee must obtain any required permits before doing any
excavation or causing disturbance to public thoroughfares or private
property as a result of its construction or operations and must restore
to their former condition such private property and public
thoroughfares, the latter in a manner consistent with all applicable
rules, regulations and resolutions relative to construction, repair or
maintenance in public rights-of-way. If such restoration is not
satisfactorily performed within a reasonable time in the opinion of the
city manager, the city manager may, after prior notice to licensee,
cause the repairs to be made at the expense of the licensee. The city
manager may inspect ongoing construction and require a licensee to halt
construction where the city manager finds the construction to be in
non-compliance with the requirements of this chapter, the license
agreement or a permit.

      (8)   Prior to commencement of underground construction, a
licensee must have complied with the following requirements:

         (a)   Have received a permit from the city for construction on
public property or public rights-of-way; and

         (b)   Have complied with Blue Stake requirements in the area of
construction;

      (9)   At the request of any person holding a valid building moving
permit and upon sufficient notice, the licensee must temporarily raise,
lower or cut its wires as necessary to facilitate such move upon not
less than 72 hours advance notice. The direct expense of the temporary
move must be paid by the permit holder, and the licensee may require
payment in advance.

   (G)   System services and capability.

      (1)   The following minimum requirements for facilities and
services apply to licenses. The council may require that a licensee
exceed these minimum requirements.

         (a)   Except as provided in a negotiated license agreement, a
cable TV system must have a minimum analog capacity of 82 video channels
available for immediate or potential use. Two-way capability shall be
designed into the system. Upon request, this minimum channel capacity
may be modified by the council, provided the licensee demonstrates that
it would be commercially impracticable to comply with the requirement. A
licensee shall have the burden of demonstrating, by clear and convincing
evidence, that compliance with the minimum channel capacity would be
commercially impracticable for its Apache Junction cable TV system.

         (b)   Standard installation and basic service to public
buildings may be required without charge as set forth in the license
agreement. Licensee may be required to make available, 1 service outlet
to a conveniently accessible point in each city building or other
facility or building located within the license area and used for public
purposes as may be designated by the city manager. The installation
charge to each occupant, if any, would not exceed licensee’s direct cost
(time and material).

         (c)   A licensee must design its system to allow the city
manager to interrupt audio portions of the cable service in an emergency
to deliver information to subscribers.

         (d)   Licensee must provide standby power for the headend so as
to be able to operate some channels during a power outage for a minimum
of 48 hours or as provided for in the license agreement.

      (2)   The following requirements apply to PEG access channels:

         (a)   PEG channel capacity shall be made available to city and
its designated PEG providers without charge within 180 days after
Licensee begins offering cable service in the city, licensee will
provide the city with up to two public, educational, and governmental
access channels (“PEG channels”) as determined in the city’s sole
discretion. The two PEG channels shall be on the basic cable service
tier of the system and two other channels of non-commercial government
programming, at least one of which may be programmed by the federal
government in the digital programming tier of the system, as provided
for in A.R.S. § 9-506(D)(1). Channels shall be reserved for this
capacity with a logo approved by the city. All costs associated with the
obligations in this section to commence PEG signals at the point of
origination back to the headend and transmitted to subscribers with the
same quality, functionality and identification as other channels on the
system, shall be borne by licensee. Except as provided in this chapter.
Licensee shall have no responsibility for the management, operation or
administration of PEG channels and shall have no editorial control
pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-506(D)(l).

         (b)   PEG channels located on the basic cable service tier
shall be grouped together and located on the system in reasonable
proximity to other commercial video channels on the system. Licensee
will deliver the PEG channels to subscribers at the same visual and
audio quality, same functionality and at the same bit rate as licensee
delivers the primary signal of local television network broadcast
stations on its cable TV system (“Network TV”), such that the PEG
channels are indistinguishable from Network TV in video and audio
quality and functionality. Should licensee convert the basic cable
service tier to digital format, subscribers must be able to continue to
receive PEG channels free of charge except for the standard rate
applicable for the basic cable service tier. PEG channels must be
receivable by subscribers without special expense, other than the
expense required to receive basic cable service or digital service, as
applicable. Licensee must maintain PEG channels consistent with FCC
technical standards. If no FCC standards for PEG channels exist,
licensee must maintain PEG channels using FCC technical standards for
local over-the-air television channels. The city recognizes that
licensee is unable to improve the technical quality of PEG channels but
licensee must not degrade the technical quality once it is received by
licensee. Licensee agrees not to encrypt PEG channels any differently
than other commercial channels available on the system unless the city
and licensee mutually agree in writing to a non-traditional format that
is not similar to those of broadcast channels.

         (c)   Upon 180 day advance written notice to licensee, the city
shall have the right to require that licensee carry one of the PEG
channels in both SD and HD format consistent with the manner and tier
placement in which licensee delivers the primary signal of Network TV.
City shall have the sole discretion to determine which of its PEG
channels migrate to HD without the addition of mandates or content
restrictions. HD resolution will be the same resolution used in
licensee’s HD tier, such that the PEG HD channels are indistinguishable
from Network TV in video and audio quality and functionality. Licensee
will continue to carry the city PEG channels in SD format in addition to
HD format as long as there are SD channels in licensee’s basic channel
lineup.

         (d)   Licensee must permit the city to operate a production
studio (the “Studio”) located in city buildings at a site determined by
the city. Licensee, at its sole cost, will design build and maintain all
PEG upstream feeds, connections and distribution facilities between its
video channel aggregation point and the Studio in a manner so that no
degradation in signal quality or content as

originated by city shall occur. Licensee must furnish a new
state-of-the-art digital fiber optic transmission system consisting of
transmitters and receivers. Transmitters and receivers must be of the
type consistent and compatible with current industry standards for the
application of continuous conversion of broadcast quality audio and
video to date for transport over fiber optic cable. Licensee must
interconnect at its sole cost the Studio to the headend or other main
distribution point of the system for distribution of the programming of
the PEG channels with the above-mentioned fiber optic cable to a point
designated by the city. At the request of the city, licensee at
licensee’s cost shall provide timely and reliable advice regarding
acquisition, maintenance and use of any Studio and production equipment
that may be obtained for that purpose by the city.

   (H)   System physical design process. Licensee shall provide city
with detailed design maps defining the geographical and technical
physical design of the system, showing all areas of the city to be
served by each hub, as well as the construction and energization
schedule by hub area for the upgraded systems. Maps shall be provided at
least 60 days prior to the release for construction. The city may review
the design and accompanying maps and submit comments to licensee for
review within 15 days of the date each map is provided to the city for
review. Licensee shall integrate and implement city’s comments into the
construction plan.

   (I)   Interconnection. A licensee shall interconnect its cable TV
system with other systems located in the city, in nearby cities, or
counties upon the request of the council, where the Apache Junction
cable TV system and the adjacent system are both owned by the same cable
operator, where the cable operator’s share a common controlling parent
or affiliate or where economically feasible.

   (J)   Local broadcast channels. Each cable TV system shall carry as
part of the basic local channels broadcast in its service area as
required and defined in FCC regulations as amended.

   (K)   Technology review and technical amendments.

      (1)   The city and licensee shall meet to discuss changes in cable
TV system laws, regulations, technology, competing services, the needs
of the community and other factors impacting cable systems. As a result
of these discussions, this license may be modified by the city and the
licensee to respond to the change in laws, regulations, technology,
competing services, the needs of the community or other factors
impacting cable TV systems.

      (2)   If any of the following conditions occur, and upon written
request of either licensee or city, the city manager and licensee may
agree to meet and discuss in good faith the terms of a mutually
agreeable license amendment:

         (a)   Cable service similar to cable service offered by
licensee is provided by any entity using the public rights-of-way, which
is not subject to similar licensing requirements of the city.

         (b)   The cable act is amended to allow licensee to provide
intrastate or interstate telecommunication and any regional
communications company to provide cable service.

         (c)   Any other significant event occurs, including but not
limited to a final non-appealable order or judgment by a court of
competent jurisdiction, which either licensee or city believes may
impact the current terms and conditions of the license.

         (d)   The purpose of the meeting and discussion is to use best
efforts to reach mutually acceptable agreement for recommendation to the
council for proposed council action within ninety days of such written
request, on how to amend the license to relieve the city or the licensee
from any commercial impracticability, which arises from the condition in
question. This provision shall not require that the license be amended,
however it is intended to facilitate a process whereby the parties may
reach a mutually acceptable agreement.

   (L)   Conditions of public rights-of-way occupancy.

      (1)   General construction practices. Licensee’s construction
practices shall be in accordance with all applicable federal, state and
local laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to the
federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration Regulations, as
adopted by the State of Arizona. All installation of electronic
equipment shall be of a permanent nature, durable and installed in
accordance with the provisions of applicable codes.

      (2)   General operational practices.

         (a)   The construction, operation and maintenance of licensee’s
system, including but not limited to the headend and distribution
network, towers, house connections, structures, poles, wire, cable,
coaxial cable, fixtures and practices, shall be performed by
appropriately licensed and qualified maintenance and construction
personnel.

         (b)   The system shall be kept in a safe and suitable condition
and shall be in compliance with, maintained, repaired and constructed in
accordance with the applicable standards, procedures and practices
contained in the National Electric Code and the National Electrical and
Safety Code, as those codes may, from time to time, be amended; and
shall additionally be maintained so as not to endanger or interfere with
improvements the city may deem necessary, or to unlawfully interfere in
any manner with the rights of any property owner, or to unnecessarily
hinder or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic on public
rights-of-way.

      (3)   Safety. Licensee shall at all times employ the standard of
care attendant to the risks involved and shall install and maintain in
use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failure and
accidents which are likely to cause damage, injury or nuisance to the
public, including public employees.

      (4)   Testing of RF Radiation Cumulative Leakage Index (“CLI”).
Licensee shall at all times comply and perform all testing in accordance
with FCC rules and regulations. Licensee shall have the right to
discontinue its service to any premises where RF radiation which
licensee cannot control is originating from inside the premises. Once a
year, licensee shall provide notice to the city of its schedule of RF
leakage monitoring and testing. Upon the city’s request, licensee shall
furnish the city with copies of the monitoring and testing data and
results following licensee’s performance of scheduled RF leakage
monitoring and testing.

      (5)   Underground. In all areas of the city where the cables,
wires and other like facilities (electric and telephone) of public
utilities exist underground, or are required by the city to be placed
underground, licensee shall also place its cables, wires or other
facilities underground.

      (6)   Pole attachments. Licensee shall use the poles and other
properties of the city pursuant to any pole attachment agreements or
public utility companies operating within the city, and licensee shall
not construct, erect or maintain any support poles or other properties
in the public rights-of-way within the city for the operation of its
system except upon the express permission of the city, which consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld upon a showing of need by licensee.
In all areas of the city where the cables, wires and other facilities of
licensee are attached to any city-owned utility poles, licensee shall
maintain those attachments subject to payment to the city in an amount
determined by written agreement between the city and licensee.

   (M)   Placement of facilities.

      (1)   This license agreement does not alter the city’s
governmental power to establish regulations of general applicability on
the erection, construction or installation of any facilities which may
be constructed, maintained or operated by a person authorized to use and
occupy the streets and other public rights-of-way, including a cable TV
system operator.

      (2)   Licensee shall comply with those requirements, including
obtaining permits prior to excavation and providing maps showing where
construction or excavation is planned, and upon completion, providing
maps showing actual construction if any changes are authorized.

      (3)   The city retains the right to designate where licensee may
place its facilities within the streets and other public rights-of-way.

   (N)   Relocation for public improvements; request of the city;
governmental powers. Whenever because of public necessity or the welfare
of the public generally, the city shall elect to change the grade of any
street, or to sell or vacate any street, easement, or other public
rights-of-way, or to construct or reconstruct any water lines, sanitary
or storm sewers, watercourses, drainage ditches, conduits, playgrounds,
traffic control devices or other public improvements, licensee shall,
after 30 days written request from the city, remove and relocate its
poles, wires, cable, conduits and other fixtures at its own expense.

   (O)   Transaction privilege taxes.

      (1)   Licensee shall obtain a city business license, which will be
the mechanism for assessing all transaction privilege taxes.

      (2)   Licensee shall pay all required taxes in a timely manner and
shall allow access to its sales and construction records upon reasonable
request of the city at the centrally located business office during
regular business hours.

      (3)   If audited, licensee shall comply with all requests of the
city, and shall pay all applicable arrearages and or fees.

      (4)   Failure to pay the assessed tax or failure to make a timely
appeal of such assessment pursuant to the city tax code is considered a
violation of the terms and conditions of the license agreement, which
may result in liquidated damages set forth herein.

      (5)   A licensee must obtain a transaction privilege tax license
to conduct business in the corporate limits of the city. In addition,
licensee shall notify the city clerk of any and all construction
agreements it has with any independent contractors and their
subcontractors for any work to be performed within the city, who shall
also be licensed in the State of Arizona and shall also obtain a
transaction privilege tax license to conduct business within the city
limits, Licensee is responsible for ensuring such tax license is
obtained by its independent contractor and subcontractors.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-9 FEES, BONDS, LETTERS OF CREDIT, LIQUIDATED DAMAGES AND APPEALS.

   (A)   Application fee. Each application for a license to be granted
under the authority of this chapter shall be accompanied by a
non-refundable filing fee in the amount specified below, by certified or
cashier’s check made payable to the “City of Apache Junction”:

      (1)   For an initial license or renewal: $2,500;

         (a)   An amount determined by the City to be used to offset all
direct, reasonable costs incurred by the City in granting the license
not defrayed from fees forthcoming from the provisions of division (A)
of this section.

      (2)   For consent to transfer or change ownership: $2,000; and

      (3)   For license modifications $2,500.

   (B)   License fee.

      (1)   In consideration of the fact the public right-of-ways of the
city will be used by a licensee in the operation of its cable system
within the boundaries of the city and the public rights-of-way are
valuable properties acquired and maintained by the city at great

expense to its taxpayers, and in consideration of the costs incurred by
the city in regulating and administering each cable license, the
licensee shall pay annually to the city 5% of the licensee’s gross
revenue.

      (2)   This payment shall be computed quarterly, for the preceding
quarter, as of March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each
year. Each quarterly payment shall be due and payable no later than 30
days after the relevant computation date. Each payment shall be
accompanied by a financial report showing in detail the gross revenues
of the licensee related to that quarter.

      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(8) below and subject to
47 U.S.C. § 542, the payment required pursuant to this article shall be
in addition to any other tax or payment owed to the city pursuant to any
other applicable ordinance or chapter of the city code, regulation or
law of the county, state or federal government.

      (4)   A license fee not received in full by the city within 30
days of its due date shall be deemed delinquent and subject to a late
fee of 2% of the amount overdue plus interest at the prime rate as
reported in the Wall Street Journal.

      (5)   Where the licensee fee is based on gross revenues, the
licensee shall file, with each license payment, a statement of the gross
revenues for the period on which the fees are based. Such a licensee
must file within 3 months of the end of its fiscal year a statement of
gross revenues for the preceding year, which is either audited or
certified as accurate by an officer of the licensee. Any payment of
license fees to adjust for a shortfall in the quarterly payments for the
preceding year must be made not later than the filing date for the
audited annual statement of gross revenues. Adjustments for any
overpayment will be credited to subsequent quarterly payments. Interest
and late charges (as specified above) will not be imposed for any
payment necessary as a result of the yearly adjustment if the payment to
correct the shortfall does not exceed 10% of the total payments made
during the preceding year. In the event the payment exceeds 10%, the
licensee is liable for interest and late charges for the entire amount
due.

      (6)   The city manager shall have the right, upon reasonable
notice, to inspect or audit during normal business hours a licensee’s
records showing the gross revenues and other relevant underlying data
and information. Upon examination of the information, the city manager
has the right to recompute any and all amounts paid under a license. Any
additional amounts due the city as a result of an audit shall be paid by
the licensee within 30 days following written notice to the licensee by
the council, which shall include a copy of the inspection or audit
report. In the event that an inspection or audit results in additional
monies owed the city in excess of 5% of the total paid, the licensee
shall bear the total cost of the audit, and late charges and interest on
the additional amount due.

      (7)   No acceptance by the council of any payment shall be
construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct
amount nor shall such acceptance of payment be construed as a release of
any claim the council may have.

      (8)   There shall be allowed as an offset against the license fee
due under this article any amounts licensee paid to the city during the
prior quarter in privilege license (sales) taxes; provided, however,
that there shall be no offset to the extent that licensee made payments
of privilege license (sales) taxes of any gross income (within the
meaning of the privilege license [sales] tax ordinance) which is not
included in gross revenues under this chapter. The license shall provide
for suitable procedures and methods for audit of this offset.

   (C)   Performance bond and irrevocable letter of credit generally.
Licensee shall obtain and maintain during the entire term of the
license, and any renewal or extensions thereof, a performance bond in
the amount of $100,000 to ensure the licensee’s faithful performance of
its obligations under the cable law and this agreement, as well as an
irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of $25,000, both being
provided to the city attorney within 30 days after execution of the
license agreement and prior to any construction work in the public
rights-of-way.

   (D)   Components of performance bond. The performance bond shall
provide the following:

      (1)   There shall be recoverable by the city jointly and severally
from the principal and surety, any and all fines and penalties due to
the city, and any and all damages, losses, costs and expenses suffered
or incurred by the city resulting from failure of the licensee after
notice and opportunity to cure to faithfully comply with:

         (a)   The material provisions of this agreement, the cable law
and other applicable law;

         (b)   All orders, permits and directives of the city;

         (c)   Payment of fees due to the city; or

         (d)   Payment of any claims or liens due to the city

      (2)   (a)   The losses, costs and expenses shall include but not
be limited to attorney fees and other associated expenses.

         (b)   The total amount of the performance bond shall be
forfeited in favor of the city in the event the licensee abandons the
system at any time during the term of the license or extension period.

      (3)   The performance bond shall be issued by a surety licensed to
do business in the State of Arizona and with an A+9 or better rating for
financial conditions and financial performance in Best’s Key Rating
Guide, Property/Casualty Edition, and shall be in a form approved by the
city with the following endorsement:

         “This bond may not be canceled or allowed to lapse, until 60
days after receipt by the city by certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice from the issuer of the bond of intent to
cancel or not renew.”

      (4)   At such time as 95% of planned construction in the city is
complete, as specified in license agreement, the council may, at
licensee’s request, reduce or eliminate the performance bond
requirement.

      (5)   The rights reserved by the Council with respect to the bonds
required are in addition to all other rights and remedies the Council
may have under this chapter, the license agreement or any other law.

   (E)   Irrevocable letter of credit. Licensee shall provide an
irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of $25,000 from a financial
institution licensed to do business in the State of Arizona to secure
its performance of all its obligations under this agreement and the
cable law.

      (1)   (a)   The form and content of the letter shall be approved
by the city attorney and contain the following endorsements:

         “This letter of credit may not be canceled or allowed to lapse
until 30 days after receipt by the city manager, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of a written notice from the issuer of the
letter of credit of its intent to cancel or not to renew.”

         (b)   In the event the letter of credit is insufficient to pay
the city for any compensation, damages, penalties, costs or expenses
owed it pursuant to this chapter or the license agreement, the
licensee’s performance bond may be drawn upon by the city manager for
any amount due the city over and above the amount of the letter of
credit.

      (2)   The rights reserved to the city manager with respect to the
letter of credit are in addition to all other rights it may have under
this chapter, the license agreement and any other law.

      (3)   Failure to maintain the letter of credit as required shall
constitute a violation of the provisions of this chapter.

      (4)   The city may withdraw an appropriate amount from such funds
including interest and penalties as applied against the letter of credit
amount if in compliance with division (H) below.

      (5)   Within 15 days after the city gives notice that an amount
has been withdrawn from the letter of credit amount, the licensee must
deposit a sum of money equal to the amount withdrawn. If licensee fails
to deposit such amount, the entire letter of credit amount remaining
shall be forfeited. In addition, the failure may be grounds to revoke
the license or take any other enforcement action.

   (F)   Liquidated damages. Because licensee’s failure to comply with
the provisions of the license and this agreement will result in injury
to the city, and because it will be difficult to estimate the extent of
such injury, the licensee agrees to pay to the city liquidated damages
for the following violations of the license which represent both
parties’ best estimate of the damages resulting from the specified
violation. To maintain that estimate, the parties agree that liquidated
damage amounts shall be increased each year in accordance with the CPI:

      (1)   Failure to provide government and economic development
channels and failure to make PEG capacity available; failure to
construct required links to PEG facilities; $1,000 per day for each day
the violation continues, in addition to any monetary payment under this
agreement or the cable law.

      (2)   Failure to submit required plans indicating expected dates
of installation of various parts of the system, and failure to supply
information, reports or filings lawfully required under the license
agreement or applicable law or by the city: $400 per day for each day
the violation continues.

      (3)   Failure, unless such failure is beyond the licensee’s
control, of the EAS to perform in the event of a public emergency or
vital information situation: $250 per occurrence.

      (4)   Failure to test, analyze and report on the performance of
the system following a request from the city manager to do so, and
failure to pay for consultant fees pursuant to this license agreement:
$200 per day for each day the violation continues.

      (5)   For a violation of customer service standards: $200 per
violation.

      (6)   Failure to render required payment for reimbursement of any
license expenses, or liquidated damages or failure to pay any required
taxes to city: $100 per day, in addition to any monetary payment due
under this agreement or the cable law.

      (7)   Failure to file, obtain or maintain any required performance
bond or letter of credit amount: $100 per day.

      (8)   Failure to restore damaged property: $50 per day, in
addition to the cost of the restoration as required elsewhere herein.

      (9)   For violation of technical standards established by the FCC:
$50 per day.

      (10)   For failure to comply with reasonable order of the city
manager: $50 per day.

      (11)   Failure to properly install facilities (e.g. conduit at
less than minimum depths, lines laying on top of ground, fences, and
walls): $50 per day.

      (12)   For failure to remedy any other violation of this chapter
or violation of the license agreement: $50 per day.

   (G)   Remedies. If the licensee violates any provision of law or of
this license agreement, the city may have one or more of the following
actions:

      (1)   Impose liquidated damages provided herein;

      (2)   Reduce the duration of the license period on any basis the
city determines is reasonable and affords licensee reasonable due
process;

      (3)   Require licensee to pay its subscribers or classes of
subscribers in an amount and on a basis the city determines is necessary
to cure the breach or default, or equitably compensates for the
violation; or

      (4)   Seek legal or equitable relief from a court of competent
jurisdiction.

   (H)   Procedure for correcting license violations.

      (1)   Notice of violation. Should the city determine that licensee
has violated one or more terms, conditions or provisions of this license
agreement, a written notice shall be given to licensee informing it of
an alleged violation (a “violation notice”). The city manager shall set
forth in such violation notice at a minimum, the following:

         (a)   Amount to be assessed;

         (b)   Factual basis for such assessment; and

         (c)   Specific license provision alleged to have been violated.

            1.   Licensee shall have 14 days from the date the violation
notice is given to inform the city manager in writing of the action
licensee will take to correct the violation (a “correction notice”) and
to begin corrective action, or to dispute that a violation has occurred
(a “notice of dispute”).

            2.   If corrective action is undertaken, it shall be
completed within 30 days of the date the violation notice is given,
unless licensee’s correction notice shows that the corrective action
cannot be completed within 30 days with the exercise of all due speed or
diligence, in which case licensee shall have a reasonable extension of
time in which to complete the corrective action.

            3.   Any notice of dispute shall specify the matter disputed
by licensee and shall stay the running of any performance or corrective
deadlines pertaining to the matter in dispute, and shall stay any other
action the city may be permitted to take under this license agreement or
applicable law.

      (2)   Appeals.

         (a)   In the event that licensee contests the city manager’s
assessment of liquidated damages, or fails to respond to the
above-mentioned notices, within 14 days the city manager shall convene
an administrative hearing.

         (b)   Licensee may pay the fine, proceed with this hearing or
waive its rights to this administrative hearing and proceed directly to
the public hearing before the council.

            1.   There shall be an administrative hearing conducted by
the city manager, and licensee shall be afforded procedural due process,
including an opportunity to be heard and to present evidence. Within 14
days after the conclusion of such administrative hearing, the city
manager shall issue a determination. In that determination the city
manager may:

               a.   Find that licensee is not in violation of this
chapter or the license agreement;

               b.   Find that the licensee is in violation of this
chapter or the license agreement, but that violation was with just cause
and waive any penalty that might otherwise be imposed;

               c.   Find that licensee is in violation of this chapter
or of the license agreement, assess liquidated damages, take corrective
action and foreclose on all or any appropriate part of the letter of
credit or performance bond provided for in this chapter; or

               d.   Find that licensee is in material violation of this
chapter and the license agreement and recommend the council declare the
licensee in violation and recommend termination of the license agreement
to the council, provided the council may consider such action only after
a public hearing as set forth below.

            2.   If a public hearing before the council is requested by
licensee or is held otherwise, it shall be de novo and it shall convene
within 30 days of the request thereof. Licensee shall be afforded full
due procedural process, including without limitation, an opportunity to
be heard, to present evidence and to cross-examine witnesses. The
council’s decision, which shall include findings of fact and
conclusions, shall be made not later than 30 days after the conclusion
of the hearing. In that decision, the council may:

               a.   Find that licensee is not in violation of this
chapter or the license agreement;

               b.   Find that licensee is in violation of this chapter
or the license agreement, but that violation was with just cause and
waive any penalty that might otherwise be imposed;

               c.   Find that licensee is in violation of this chapter
or of the license agreement, assess liquidated damages, take corrective
action and foreclose on all or any appropriate part of the letter of
credit and/or performance bond provided for elsewhere in this chapter;
or

               d.   Find that licensee is in material violation of this
chapter and the license agreement and declare the licensee in violation
and revoke the license agreement.

      (3)   Licensee’s options.

         (a)   If after the hearing the disputed claim is upheld by the
council, licensee shall have 30 days from the date of the mailing of the
decision to remedy the violation or failure, unless corrective action
cannot be completed within 30 days with the exercise of all due speed
and diligence, in which case licensee shall have a reasonable extension
of time in which to complete corrective action.

      (b)   Alternatively, licensee retains its right to seek review of
the disputed matter under applicable law. The submission of a matter to
mediation or to a court of competent jurisdiction shall stay the running
of the above-described correction period.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-10 TERMINATION AND REVOCATION.

   (A)   Termination. The license shall terminate, upon the expiration
of the term thereof, unless renewal is successfully applied per
applicable laws.

      (1)   If a licensee is in material violation of this chapter or in
default of the terms of its license agreement, the city manager may make
written demand that the licensee come into compliance with said
requirements within a reasonable period of time, as specified in this
chapter. If, after the cure period provided for in this chapter has run,
the licensee is unwilling or unable to do so, the city manager may
recommend the revocation, alteration or suspension of the license to the
council, specifying the reasons for such action.

      (2)   A copy of any such recommendations shall be served by
certified mail, return receipt requested upon the licensee, and the
licensee shall be given at least 14 days notice prior to the date of a
public hearing before the council to consider such action, and the
licensee will be given an opportunity to present evidence and make
argument at such meeting.

      (3)   The council shall consider the recommendations, the response
of the licensee and hear from any other interested persons, and shall
determine whether or not the licensee is in violation or default of its
obligations and, if so, whether such failure was with just cause.

      (4)   If the council finds that the failure by the licensee was
with just cause, the council shall direct the licensee to comply with
such time and manner and upon such terms and conditions as are
reasonable.

      (5)   If the council determines that the licensee’s failure was
without just cause, the council may declare the license revoked, altered
or suspended. The council may provide a specified period of time for the
licensee to come into compliance before the revocation takes effect.

      (6)   A license may be revoked, altered or suspended by the
council on the following grounds, among others, and taking into account
any aggravating or mitigating circumstances:

         (a)   Fails to comply with any material provision of this
chapter or the license agreement;

         (b)   Makes willful and material false or misleading statements
in any application;

         (c)   Engages in the practice of any fraud or deceit upon the
city or subscribers;

         (d)   Fails to abide by the privacy provision of this chapter;

         (e)   Fails to make timely payment of any monies due the city
pursuant to this chapter;

         (f)   Unless otherwise provided in the license agreement, fails
to commence construction in the license area within three months and to
commence basic service within six months from the effective date of the
license agreement;

         (g)   Fails to file and maintain the bonds, insurance, records,
failure to pay license fees or assessed property taxes;

         (h)   For repeated material failure to maintain service quality
under the standards prescribed for which the licensee receives notice
and fails to cure; or

         (i)   Fails to restore service after 24 consecutive hours after
notice to the licensee of interrupted service to the entire system,
except when such interruption is beyond the control of the licensee.

   (C)   System disposal.

      (1)   In the event of termination or revocation of a license, the
licensee involved shall offer to sell the cable TV system, at the fair
market value, to a new licensee or applicant for a license.

      (2)   The fair market value shall be determined in accordance with
generally accepted appraisal procedures. The original cost of all
tangible and intangible property, as well as salvage value, book value,
replacement cost, cash flow and other factors will be considered.

      (3)   Under no circumstances shall any valuation be made for any
right or privilege granted by license. Should the licensee fail to
negotiate a sale, as described above, the city may purchase the system
at the fair market value for the purpose of leasing to qualified
operator until a buyer can be found, pursuant to the provisions of
A.R.S. § 9-509.

   (D)   Continuity of service.

      (1)   Licensee shall provide continuous service for the entire
term of the license agreement to all subscribers and users in return for
payment of the established rates, fees and charges.

      (2)   If licensee seeks to sell or transfer, or if the city
revokes or fails to renew the license, licensee shall continue to
operate the system as trustee for its successor in interest until an
orderly and lawful change of operation is affected.

      (3)   This period of operation shall not exceed 120 days from the
occurrence of any of the above events. Revenues accrued during that
period of time shall be received by the operator.

      (4)   During that time, the cable system shall be operated under
terms and conditions consistent with the most recent license agreement
and this chapter.

   (E)   Revocation for cause. In addition to all other rights, powers
and remedies available to the city, the city shall have the additional,
separate and distinct right to revoke this license agreement and all
rights, authority, power, privileges and permissions granted licensee by
this license agreement if licensee substantially fails to cure or
correct a material violation of this license agreement within the
applicable time periods following compliance within this agreement,
absent licensee’s pursuit of further remedies as provided for in this
agreement or following a final decision of a court of competent
jurisdiction reviewing the disputed matter.

   (F)   Revocation by ordinance.

      (1)   Revocation of the license shall be accomplished by passage
of an ordinance at a properly noticed public hearing.

      (2)   An ordinance revoking the license shall include the reason
for the council to justify revocation. The effective date of the
revocation shall be stated in the ordinance. The license agreement shall
terminate on the effective date of the revocation.

      (3)   An ordinance revoking the license shall not be passed
without 30 days written notice to licensee that an ordinance to revoke
the license will be considered by the council. Licensee shall retain the
privilege to be heard by the council or any council committee regarding
the proposed revocation ordinance.

      (4)   Licensee may request a review of the revocation findings and
conclusions pursuant to applicable law and shall retain any other remedy
which may be available to it under law.

   (G)   Continuance of service after revocation. The city may require
licensee to continue operating its system after revocation until
operation of the system can be transferred to a new owner or the city
exercises its rights herein.

   (H)   Removal after revocation.

      (1)   Upon revocation of the license and after a review of the
revocation findings and/or conclusions by a court of competent
jurisdiction, if review is sought by licensee, the city may require
licensee to remove, at licensee’s expense, any above-ground portion of
its system from any street or other public right-of-way.

      (2)   In removing its underground system, licensee shall refill
and compact, at its own expense, any excavation that shall be made, and
shall leave all streets and other public rights-of-way, and private
property, in reasonable condition, and without affecting, altering or
disturbing in any way electric, telephone, gas, steam or water utilities
or other cable system operator cables, wires or attachments.

      (3)   The insurance, indemnity and damage provisions of this
license agreement shall remain in full force and effect during the
entire term of removal.

   (I)   Failure to remove system. If licensee fails to commence removal
of its system, or the part that was designated, in accordance with this
section, within 60 days after written notice of the city’s demand for
removal is given, or if licensee fails to complete removal without one
year after removal has begun, the city shall have the right to exercise
one of the following options:

      (1)   Assumption of ownership.

         (a)   Declare all right, title and interest to the system to be
in the city or its designee with all right of ownership including, but
not limited to, the right to operate the system or transfer the system
to another for operation.

         (b)   Upon that declaration by the city, licensee shall be
entitled to receive an equitable price from the city for the value of
the system.

      (2)   Abandonment of the system. Declare the system abandoned and
cause the system, or that portion designated by the city, to be removed.
The cost of the removal shall be recoverable pursuant to the insurance
and indemnity provisions of this license agreement, or from licensee
directly.

   (J)   Additional duty to remove property. The city may require
licensee to remove any above-ground portion of the system if licensee
ceases to use that part of the system in the city for a continuous
period of 12 months.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-11 RENEWAL.

   The procedures for renewal of any cable license shall be governed by
federal and state law, as of the time the license is in effect. However,
should there be no active renewal provisions, council may amend this
chapter with renewal procedures which shall govern all licenses in
effect or thereafter granted by city.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-12 TRANSFERS AND CHANGE OF CONTROL.

   (A)   General restrictions. No sale, transfer, assignment or lease of
the license, or sale, transfer, assignment, lease or fundamental
corporate change of or in licensee, including, but not limited to, a
fundamental corporate change in licensee’s parent corporation or any
entity having a controlling interest in licensee, the sale of a
controlling interest in the licensee’s assets, a merger, including the
merger of a subsidiary and parent entity, consolidation, or the creation
of a subsidiary or affiliate entity, shall take place until a written
request has been filed with city requesting approval of the sale,
transfer or corporate change and such approval has been granted or
deemed granted; provided, however, that the approval shall not be
required where licensee grants a security interest in its license and/or
assets to secure an indebtedness.

   (B)   Controlling interest restrictions.

      (1)   Any sale, transfer, exchange or assignment of stock in
licensee, or licensee’s parent corporation or any other entity having a
controlling interest in licensee, so as to create a new controlling
interest therein, shall be subject to the requirements of this section.

      (2)   The term controlling interest as used herein is not limited
to majority stock ownership, but includes actual working control in
whatever manner exercised.

      (3)   In any event, as used herein, a new controlling interest
shall be deemed to be created upon the acquisition through any
transaction or group of transactions of a legal or beneficial interest
of 15% or more by one person. Acquisition by one person of an interest
of 5% or more in a single transaction shall require written notice to
city.

   (C)   Filing requirements. The licensee shall file, in addition to
all documents, forms and information required to be filed by applicable
law, the following:

      (1)   All contracts, agreements or other documents that constitute
the proposed transaction and all exhibits, attachments or other
documents referred to therein which are necessary in order to understand
the terms thereof;

      (2)   A list detailing all documents filed with any state or
federal agency related to the transaction including, but not limited to,
the PUC, the FCC, the FTC, the FEC, the SEC or any applicable state
agency. Upon request, licensee shall provide city with a complete copy
of any such document; and

      (3)   Any other documents or information related to the
transaction as may be specifically requested by the city.

   (D)   Time limit. City shall have such time as is permitted by
federal law in which to review a transfer request.

   (E)   Costs and filing fees. The licensee shall reimburse city for
all legal, administrative and consulting costs and fees associated with
city’s review of any request to transfer. Nothing herein shall prevent
licensee from negotiating partial or complete payment of such costs and
fees by the transferee. Licensee may not itemize any such reimbursement
on subscriber bills, but may recover such expenses in its subscriber
rates. Licensee shall also pay a $2,000 fee for a sales, transfer,
assignment or lease request pursuant to A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 14-1-9
(A)(2).

   (F)   Guarantees. In no event shall a sale, transfer, corporate
change or assignment of ownership or control pursuant to this section be
approved without the transferee becoming a signatory to this license and
assuming all rights and obligations thereunder, and assuming all other
rights and obligations of the current licensee to the city including,
but not limited to, any adequate guarantees or other security
instruments provided by the license.

   (G)   City’s right to purchase.

      (1)   In the event of any proposed sale, transfer, corporate
change or assignment pursuant to this chapter, city shall have the right
to purchase the system for the value of the consideration proposed in
such transaction.

      (2)   City’s right to purchase shall arise upon city’s receipt of
notice of the material terms of an offer or proposal for sale, transfer,
corporate change or assignment, which licensee has accepted. Notice of
such offer or proposal must be conveyed to city in writing and separate
from any general announcement of the transaction.

   (H)   Waiver of rights by city. City shall be deemed to have waived
its right to purchase the system pursuant to this section only in the
following circumstances:

      (1)   If city does not indicate to licensee in writing, within 60
days of receipt of written notice of a proposed sale, transfer,
corporate change or assignment as contemplated above, its intent to
exercise its right of purchase; or

      (2)   It approves the assignment or sale of the license as
provided within this section.

   (I)   City right of refusal. No license may be transferred if city
determines licensee is in noncompliance of the license unless an
acceptable compliance program has been approved by city. The approval of
any transfer or ownership pursuant to this section shall not be deemed
to waive any rights of city to subsequently enforce noncompliance issues
relating to this license even if such issues predated the approval,
whether blown or unknown to city.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-13 INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE.

   (A)   Indemnification of city officials. Licensee shall indemnify,
defend and hold harmless the city, the members of the council, including
the mayor, and all other officials, employees and agents, boards or
commissions, when acting in their capacity as municipal officials,
employees or agents, boards or commissions, from and against any and all
claims, suits and actions, liability and judgment for damages or
otherwise:

      (1)   Damage to person or property. For actual or alleged injury
or death to individuals, or damage to property, in any way arising out
of or through, or alleged to arise out of or through, any act or
omission of licensee or its officers, agents, employees or contractors,
or to which licensee or its officers, agents, employees or contractors
acts or omissions in any way contribute;

      (2)   Violation of rights or interests. Arising out of or alleged
to arise out of any claim for damages, with respect to licensee’s
operation of a cable TV system, for invasion of the right of privacy,
defamation of any person, or the violation or infringement of any
copyright, trademark, trade name, service mark or patent or any other
right of any person; or

      (3)   Statutory violations. Arising out of or alleged to arise out
of licensee’s failure to comply with the provisions of any statute,
regulation or ordinance of the United States, the State of Arizona or
the city.

   (B)   Defense of actions.

      (1)   Nothing in this license agreement shall prevent a party
indemnified and held harmless by another from participating in the
defense of any litigation by its own counsel at its sole expense.

      (2)   That participation shall not under any circumstances relieve
the indemnifying party from its duty defending against liability or
paying any judgment entered against that party.

   (C)   City’s negligence or willful misconduct. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this section, the city shall not
be indemnified or reimbursed in relation to any matter, in any action,
suit or proceeding:

      (1)   Arising out of the operation, use or distribution of
programming or services over the Government, Economic Development and
PEG Channels facilities or access funding; or

      (2)   In which the city, its officials, employees or agents, is
negligent in the performance of its obligations under this license
agreement, or has engaged in willful misconduct or criminal acts;
provided, however, that licensee shall provide a defense even though, in
good faith, it believes at the commencement of any action, that the city
may have engaged in that conduct. If the city, its officials, employees
or agents, is found to have engaged in that conduct, licensee shall be
reimbursed by the city for all amounts paid and expenses incurred by
licensee in connection with that action, suit or proceeding, including
reasonable attorney fees.

   (D)   Indemnity for construction, maintenance and operation.

      (1)   The licensee shall at its sole cost and expense, indemnify,
hold harmless and defend the city, its officials, boards, commissions,
agents and employees by providing immediate defense with counsel
approved by the council, against any and all claims, suits, causes of
action, proceedings and judgments for damages arising out of
construction, maintenance or operation of the cable TV system.

      (2)   City shall provide 30 days’ notice of any claim or potential
claim and shall provide copies of any summons and complaint.

   (E)   Required insurance. The licensee, upon acceptance of the
license agreement, shall provide the city with and maintain in full
force throughout the term of the license agreement, insurance issued by
a company duly authorized to do business in the State of Arizona,
insuring with respect to the installation, construction, operation and
maintenance of the system as follows:

      (1)   Comprehensive general and automobile liability coverage
including, but not limited to, blanket contractual liability, completed
operations liability, broad form property damage including but not
limited to coverage for explosion, collapse, underground hazard and
automobile non-ownership liability. This insurance shall be written in
the following minimum amounts:

         (a)   Comprehensive general liability: $2,000,000 combined
single limit, bodily injury and property damage;

         (b)   Comprehensive automobile liability: $2,000,000 combined
single limit, bodily injury and property damage; and

         (c)   Excess umbrella liability, covering all the above
mentioned hazards, in the minimum amount of $5,000,000.

      (2)   Workers’ compensation coverage as required by the laws and
regulations of the State of Arizona.

      (3)   All insurance policies required herein shall include the
city as a named insured party.

      (4)   Licensee shall be solely responsible for all premiums due
and payable for insurance required herein. Licensee shall provide to the
city a certificate of insurance evidencing compliance with the coverage
requirements listed above.

      (5)   All insurance policies required herein shall be in a form
approved by the City Attorney and shall include a 60 day notice of
cancellation or modifying endorsement.

   (F)   Self insurance. The provisions of this article, in the
discretion of the city, may be satisfied by proof of self insurance.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-14 ADMINISTRATION.

   (A)   Inspection of records. The council reserves the right during
the term of the license agreement and during normal business hours and
upon the giving of reasonable notice to examine, audit and review
licensee’s contracts, engineering plans, accounting, financial data and,
subject to subscriber privacy laws, service records relating to the
property and operations of the licensee and to all other records
required to be kept pursuant to this chapter. The records shall be
treated as confidential by city and shall not be released, either orally
or in any written form whatsoever, without the express written
permission of the licensee, provided however that release shall be
permitted in order for city to comply with the Arizona Public Records
Act pursuant to A.R.S. §§ 39-101 et seq. and as amended.

   (B)   Licensee rules and regulations. Copies of the rules,
regulations, terms and conditions adopted by the licensee for the
conduct of its business shall be provided to the city manager, upon
request of the city manager.

   (C)   City Manager.

      (1)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall have
responsibility for the day-to-day administration of cable operations
within the city as governed by this chapter and the applicable license
agreements.

      (2)   The city manager shall be empowered to take all
administrative actions on behalf of the council except those actions
specified herein which are reserved to the council or another city
office or officer.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-15 GENERAL PROVISIONS.

   (A)   Non-discrimination. Licensee shall not deny service, access or
otherwise discriminate against subscribers, users or residents of the
city. Licensee shall comply at all times with all applicable federal,
state and city laws, rules and regulations, executive and administrative
orders relating to non-discrimination and equal employment opportunities
and requirements.

   (B)   Laws and codes. Licensee shall comply fully with all applicable
local, county, state and federal laws, codes, ordinances, rules and
regulations.

   (C)   Cumulative rights and remedies. Except as specified herein, all
rights and remedies of the city manager and the council in this chapter
are cumulative and may be exercised singly or cumulatively at the
discretion of the city manager or the council.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

§ 14-1-16 RIGHTS RESERVED TO COUNCIL.

   Without limitation upon the rights which the council may otherwise
have, the council does hereby expressly reserve the right to amend any
article or provision of this chapter for any reason determined to be
desirable by the council including, but not limited to:

   (A)   New developments in the state of technology of cable systems;
and

   (B)   Any changes in federal or state laws, rules or regulations.

(Ord. 1413, passed 2-3-2015)

CHAPTER 15: PUBLIC PARK REGULATIONS

      Article

         15-1.   PARK REGULATIONS

ARTICLE 15-1: PARK REGULATIONS

Section

   15-1-1   Definitions

   15-1-2   Park operations

   15-1-3   Prohibited activities

   15-1-4   Enforcement and penalty

§ 15-1-1 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning,

   CAMP.

      (1)   To use real property controlled or owned by the city for
living accommodation purposes such as:

         (a)   Sleeping;

         (b)   Making preparations to sleep, including the laying down
of bedding for the purpose of sleeping;

         (c)   Storing personal belongings;

         (d)   Making any fire;

         (e)   Using any tents or shelter or other structure or vehicle
for sleeping;

         (f)   Doing any digging or earth breaking;

         (g)   Using items associated with camping;

         (h)   Regularly cooking or preparing meals; or

         (i)   Living in a parked vehicle.

      (2)   The above listed activities constitute camping when it
reasonably appears, in light of all circumstances, that the
participants, in conducting these activities, are in fact using the area
for living accommodations regardless of the intent of the participants
or the nature of any other activities in which they may also be engaged.

   CITY. The City of Apache Junction.

   DIRECTOR. The director of the parks and recreation department for the
City of Apache Junction, or his or her designee.

   PARK. Includes all city parks, trails, swimming pools, buildings,
playgrounds, skate park and/or any other public property under
management and control of the parks and recreation department, owned or
leased by the city for the public benefit including but not limited to
leased Bureau of Land Management property and Arizona State Land
Department property.

   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, brandy, whisky, rum, tequila,
mescal, gin, vodka, wine, porter, ale, beer, malt liquor, malt beverage
or absinthe, or compound or mixture of any of them or of any with
vegetables or other substances, alcohol bitters, bitters containing
alcohol, and any liquid mixture or preparation, whether patented or
otherwise, fruits preserved in ardent spirits, and beverages containing
more than ½ of 1% of alcohol by volume, which produces intoxication or
any increase in a person’s blood alcohol level.

   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT. Includes all unmanned aircraft as defined in
A.R.S. § 13-2729(F)(7), as amended.

   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM (“UAS”). Includes all unmanned aircraft
systems as defined in A.R.S. § 13-2729(F)(7), as amended.

(Ord. 1442, passed 2-7-2017)

§ 15-1-2 PARK OPERATIONS.

   (A)   Hours.

      (1)   Except for unusual and unforeseen emergencies, parks shall
be open to the public during posted hours, as determined by the
director.

      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain in a park or to
enter a park except during the posted hours unless a permit is obtained
pursuant to division (C) below.

   (B)   Closed areas.

      (1)   Any section or part of any park may be declared closed to
the public by the director at any time and for any interval of time,
either temporarily or at regular and stated intervals and either
entirely or for specific uses, as the director shall find reasonably
necessary.

      (2)   No person shall enter any closed areas of a park if the
entry is prohibited, nor shall any person utilize any portion of a park
if that utilization is prohibited.

   (C)   Permits and scheduling.

      (1)   Park activities sponsored or co-sponsored by the city shall
have first priority over any other use.

      (2)   Any person or group of persons may use any park for any
recreational purposes not otherwise prohibited within this chapter.

      (3)   A written permit shall be obtained from the director
whenever any person or group desires to reserve any portion of a park
for any activity. Reservations shall be made in accordance with
reservation and facility use guidelines as established by the director.

      (4)   Any person or group aggrieved by the denial of a permit
shall have the right to appeal the decision of the director to the city
manager or his or her designee. Any appeal to the city manager shall be
served with the city clerk’s office within 5 working days if a notice of
disapproval is received from the director. The city manager or his or
her designee shall act upon the appeal within 5 working days following
receipt thereof. The city manager’s decision is final and binding on
both parties.

      (5)   A park use permit may be revoked by the director upon
determining that the park is being used contrary to: any representation
made by the applicant; any conditions of the permit; or any city
ordinances or state law.

      (6)   Continuous use of facilities shall be limited to
city-sponsored or co-sponsored activities or affiliate groups as
approved by the director. Continuous use shall be interpreted to be any
regularly scheduled or reoccurring activity.

      (7)   Facility use fees will be established by the director as set
forth in Chapter 4 of the city code and may be amended on an as needed
basis.

   (D)   Insurance and indemnification; hold harmless.

      (1)   Any person or group reserving a park shall defend, indemnify
and hold harmless the city and its elected officials and employees and
for any and all damages to the facility caused by any person or persons
attending the activity, and all liability and damages to any person for
injuries, including but not limited to, death or serious bodily harm.

      (2)   Adequate insurance as determined by the director shall be
provided naming the city, its elected officials and employees as
“additional insured parties.”

      (3)   Responsibility for loss, breakage or need for repair of any
piece of furniture, equipment or portion of the facility or areas shall
be upon the individual signing the permit application.

(Ord. 1442, passed 2-7-2017)

§ 15-1-3 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.

   (A)   Amplified sound or music. A permit from the director is
required for amplified sound or music in city parks and public
recreation areas. Music with language designed to incite violence is
prohibited. Nothing in this division is intended to prohibit first
amendment expression or speech.

   (B)   Animals. Except with respect to horses as provided in division
(O) of this section, no person shall bring or allow to enter into a
park, any animal owned or under control of such person, unless 1) it is
a service animal as defined under A.R.S. § 11-1024(J)(5), as amended, or
2) it is restrained at all times (except when participating in an
organized program authorized by the city) on a reasonably adequate leash
not greater than 10 feet in length. The person in control of any such
animal shall dispose of their animal waste in a trash receptacle.
Animals are not allowed in areas of the park where posted as prohibited
(except when participating in an organized program authorized by the
city). Wild or exotic animals or reptiles are not allowed to be brought
into any park without the written permission of the director. Owners are
responsible for the aggressive actions of their animals and may be asked
to leave the park if the director considers such animal to be a safety
risk to persons and other animals based on their behavior.

   (C)   Unauthorized water usage. No person shall swim, bathe or wade
in any waters or waterways, splashpads, sinks, toilets, or drinking
water fountains in, or adjacent to any park, except in such waters and
at such places as are provided in such parks, and in compliance with the
regulations as are adopted by the director. No person shall enter any
waters or places customarily designated for the purpose of swimming or
bathing, or congregate therein when the activity is prohibited by the
director. No person shall use any water source at any city park for
swimming, animal swimming or bathing, washing clothes, or cleaning fish,
except at places designated for those activities.

   (D)   Camping. Camping is prohibited in parks, except with the
express written permission of the director. Campers, trailers or motor
homes shall not connect to any electrical supply, water supply or waste
service without the written permission of the director.

   (E)   Climbing. No person shall climb on any fence, tree, art
feature, or other structure other than playground equipment designed for
such purpose.

   (F)   Commercial activity. No person shall advertise, solicit goods
or services or engage in any commercial activity within a park without
prior authorization from the director.

   (G)   Compliance with laws. All persons shall comply with all
federal, state, county and city laws, rules and regulations when
visiting city parks.

   (H)   Compressed gas cylinders. No person shall bring into any park a
compressed gas cylinder (such as helium to fill balloons) without
obtaining prior written permission from the director. Propane containers
used in connection with barbeque equipment are exempt from this
prohibition.

   (I)   Damaging facilities. No person shall graffiti, vandalize,
damage or remove any park property such as tables, benches, ramadas,
lighting, steps, ramps, railings, fencing, barbeque grills, playground
equipment, drinking fountains, plants, court surfacing, curbs or paving,
or other structures of any kind. This shall include: applying adhesive
stickers to any park property equipment, signs or any other surfaces;
standing on table tops; swinging from ramada roof beams; skateboarding
or bicycling on any railing, bench, table, wall, step or other
structure; wastefully or improperly using the restroom or water
facilities, or cause the lighting facilities or electrical appliances to
be turned on or used without the written permission of the director.

   (J)    Endangerment of wildlife. No person shall commit any act in a
park so as to endanger the health or safety of area wildlife, to include
but not limited to: rabbits, snakes, birds or any wildlife in violation
of A.R.S. § 13-2910, Cruelty to Animals, as amended.

   (K)   Debris, junk, trash, Utter and garbage. No person shall bring
into or dump, deposit or leave any debris, junk, trash, litter or
garbage as defined in Apache Junction City Code, Vol.1, Chapter 9:
Health and Sanitation, Article 9-1: Property Maintenance Standards, §
9-1-2 Definitions within any city park. Debris, junk, trash, litter and
garbage may not be placed in any waters in any park, or left anywhere on
the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the trash receptacles; where
receptacles are not provided, all debris, junk, trash, litter and
garbage shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible
for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere. No person shall
bring debris, junk, trash, litter and garbage into or upon park premises
except refuse or trash generated at the park while using the park. In no
circumstances may a person dump or leave in the park furniture,
appliances, construction material, bio-hazard waste or chemical waste.

   (L)   Food, gum, drinks and personal props. No person shall bring
food, gum, drinks or personal props such as traffic cones, skateboard
stacking, makeshift jumps, obstacles or ramps into the skate park.

   (M)   Glass containers. It is unlawful for any person to possess a
glass container in any park. No person shall throw, toss or otherwise
propel, or break any glass object in any park or any street or alley
adjacent to such park.

   (N)   Golfing. No person in a park shall use any portion of the park
for golfing purposes, or make use of any golf club or ball in any park,
except at places designated for golfing by the director.

   (O)   Horses. No person shall bring a horse or other equine into a
park, or ride one in any location in a park or landscaped area, except
on designated bridle trails or paths or with the written permission of
the director. Where permitted, horses or other equine shall be ridden
with reasonable due care and shall not be allowed to graze or go
unattended.

   (P)   Interference with park activities. No person shall interfere or
disrupt the reasonable use of the park by other patrons.

   (Q)   Model toys and unmanned aircraft systems. No person in a park
shall bring into or use any remote controlled or self-propelled model
toy or unmanned aircraft, including but not limited to model airplanes,
drones, model rockets, model boats, model cars or other models, except
in the areas designated by the director or with written permission from
the director.

   (R)   Motorized vehicles. No person shall bring into or operate in a
park any motor vehicle of any type, including but not limited to, any
automobiles, motorcycles, motor bikes, motorized skateboards or
3-wheeled scooters, except in those areas or on roads or paths
designated for such vehicular use by the director. Inoperable motorized
vehicles must be removed from the park within a 24-hour time period or
the vehicles will be towed away at the owner’s expense to a storage
facility. No portion of a park is to be used as a place to repair
vehicles.

   (S)   Non-motorized vehicles. No person in a park shall operate or
ride a skateboard, roller skates, a bicycle, scooter or tricycle-type
three wheeled scooter (also known as a “Trike”) on grass, landscaped
areas, ramada areas, basketball, tennis and racquetball courts or on
structures and fixtures, including tables, benches, playground
equipment, railings, steps, ramps, buildings or where such activity is
specifically posted as prohibited, or in such a manner which creates a
serious safety risk to themselves or to other park users.

   (T)   Projectile devices. No person shall use any portion of a city
park for archery, firearm practice or other projectile activities.

   (U)   Public nudity/indecency. No person shall engage in sexual
intercourse or expose or display their genitals or private parts in a
public park. Nothing in this division is intended to prohibit protected
First Amendment expression.

   (V)   Public profanity. No person may use language designed to incite
violence. Nothing in this division is intended to prohibit protected
first amendment expression and speech.

   (W)   Spirituous liquors. It is unlawful for any person to consume
spirituous liquors in a municipal park except that beer and wine is
permitted in areas designated for such use by the director. Individuals
consuming beer and wine shall do so only having first obtained a permit
issued by the director.

   (X)   Smoking. The act of smoking any substance, and including the
use of e-cigarettes in any park facility shall only be allowed in
designated areas.

   (Y)   Use of restroom facilities. No person shall urinate or defecate
in a park except within a toilet or urinal provided inside a restroom
facility.

(Ord. 1442, passed 2-7-2017) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 1-1-11

§ 15-1-4 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.

   (A)   Enforcement. The director, park rangers and police officers
shall, in connection with their duties imposed by law, diligently
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Requests from park rangers must
be strictly adhered to in the interest of public safety. Park rangers
have authority to issue citations to any park user in violation of any
provision of this chapter.

   (B)   Ejection for violations. The director, park rangers and police
officers have the authority to eject any person from any park for
violating any provision of this chapter. Following ejection, it is
unlawful for any person to enter or reenter any park during the ejection
period.

   (C)   Confiscation of property. The director, park rangers and police
officers have the authority to seize and confiscate any property, thing
or device in the park, used contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
including but not limited to glass bottles, cigarettes, skateboards,
bicycles, skates, motorized skateboards, weapons of any type, model
toys, and unmanned aircraft or unmanned aircraft systems.

   (D)   Interference with official duties. It is unlawful for any
person to interfere with the official duties of a park ranger.

   (E)   Penalty. A person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be guilty of a class one misdemeanor and shall be
punished as authorized under Apache Junction City Code, Vol I, Chapter
1: General, Article 1-1: General, § 1-1-11(A) Penalty.

(Ord. 1442, passed 2-7-2017)

CHAPTER 16: SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS

      Article

         16-1.   SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS

ARTICLE 16-1: SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS

Section

   16-1-1   Legislative intent

   16-1-2   Definitions

   16-1-3   Alarm user permit required

   16-1-4   Prohibition of automatic dialing devices

   16-1-5   False alarms; nuisance declared; administrative penalties
and permit revocation

   16-1-6   General regulations

   16-1-7   Appeal procedures

   16-1-8   Penalty

§ 16-1-1 LEGISLATIVE INTENT.

   (A)   This article is intended to regulate the activities and
responsibilities of those persons who purchase, lease or rent and those
persons who own or conduct the business of selling, leasing, renting,
installing, servicing, maintaining or monitoring alarm systems, devices
or services.

   (B)   It is further intended to encourage the improvement in
reliability of those systems, devices and services and to ensure that
Police Department personnel will not be unduly diverted from responding
to actual criminal activity as a result of responding to false alarms.

   (C)   This article specifically encompasses burglar alarms,
robbery/holdup alarms, panic alarms, fire alarms and medical assistance
alarms both audible and inaudible (silent). The provisions of this
article shall not apply to alarm systems owned by the city when the
systems are utilized on premises owned or operated by the city. The
provisions of this article shall not apply to audible alarms affixed to
automobiles, unless the vehicle alarms are affixed to a central
monitoring system.

(Prior Code, § 16-1-1)

§ 16-1-2 DEFINITIONS.

   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.

   ACT OF NATURE. An unusual, extraordinary, sudden and unexpected
manifestation of the forces of nature, which cannot be prevented by
reasonable human care, skill or foresight.

   ALARM or ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical or electrical device(s) which
is used to detect unauthorized entry into buildings or onto premises or
to warn or alert others of an emergency or of the commission of an
unlawful act within buildings or on premises or perimeter of premises.

   ALARM AGENT. Any person who is self-employed or employed by an alarm
business, either directly or indirectly, whose duties include any of the
following: selling, maintaining, servicing or repairing any alarm or
alarm system in or on any building, place or premises. Any person whose
duties consist solely of resetting an alarm following activation shall
not be deemed to be an ALARM AGENT.

   ALARM BUSINESS. The business by an individual, partnership,
corporation or other entity of selling, leasing, maintaining, servicing,
repairing, altering, replacing, moving, installing or monitoring an
alarm or alarm system in or on any building, structure or facility.

   ALARM USER. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or business
leasing, renting, purchasing or using any monitored or proprietor alarm,
alarm system, device or service.

   AUDIBLE ALARM. A device designed for the detection of an unauthorized
entry of premises and which, when activated, generates an audible sound
on the premises.

   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. A device which is interconnected to a
telephone line, cellular telephone service or radio link and is
programmed to select a predetermined telephone number and transmit an
emergency message indicating a need for emergency response either by
voice methods or coded signals or by maintaining an open line with
emergency services.

   COORDINATOR. The Chief of Police of the Apache Junction Police
Department or the individual designated by the Chief of Police to
enforce the provisions of this article.

   DAYS. Calendar days based on a 365-day year.

   FALSE HOLDUP ALARM. Any signal which indicates a robbery or holdup
but is not the result of a robbery or holdup.

   MONITORED ALARM. A device designed for the detection of an
unauthorized entry into premises and which, when activated, generates an
inaudible signal to a monitoring station. A monitored alarm may also
generate an audible sound on the premises.

   NOTICE, NOTIFY, NOTIFICATION. Writing evidencing pertinent
information by means of first class, prepaid certified mail, return
receipt requested. NOTICE is considered issued on date it is placed in
the United States Postal Service mail.

   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity.

   PROPRIETOR ALARM. Any alarm or alarm system which is not leased or
rented from or owned or maintained under contract by an alarm business.

   ROBBERY/PANIC ALARM or ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical or electrical
device designed so that a person may intentionally activate it to summon
police assistance or medical assistance.

(Prior Code, § 16-1-2)

§ 16-1-3 ALARM USER PERMIT REQUIRED.

   (A)   Every alarm user shall obtain an alarm user permit from the
city for each alarm system. Such a permit shall be obtained within
ninety (90) days from the effective date of this article or prior to the
use of an alarm system which is installed subsequent to the expiration
of ninety (90) days from the effective date of this article .

   (B)   The application for an alarm user’s permit shall be made on a
form approved by the coordinator and shall be accompanied by a permit
fee as set forth in Apache Junction City Code, Vol. I, Chapter 4: Fees,
Article 4-7, Public Safety Fee Schedule, § 4-7-1(J), Security Alarm
Permit Fees. Items on the form shall include, among other things,
personal, business and alarm information, as well as the names of three
responsible parties and their telephone numbers, provided, however, all
alarm systems that have been installed prior to the expiration of thirty
(30) days from the effective date of the article shall not be charged a
permit fee if application for a permit is made within thirty (30) days
from the effective date of this article.

   (C)   Permits are not transferable from one user to another or from
one address to another. Permits are valid for 365 days from the date of
issuance. Renewal fees are due with the alarm permit update within 30
days prior to expiration of the alarm permit.

   (D)   The coordinator shall mail an alarm user permit verification
form to an alarm user permit holder once every year, requiring the alarm
permit holder to complete the form and return it with the renewal fee to
the coordinator to verify that the alarm system is still in use and the
permit information is current.

(Prior Code, § 16-1-3) (Am. Ord. 1434, passed 1-17-2017) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 16-1-8

§ 16-1-4 PROHIBITION OF AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES.

   (A)   No person shall use or cause to be used any automatic dialing
device that:

      (1)   Automatically selects a public safety or emergency services
telephone line of the Apache Junction Police Department;

      (2)   Prevents termination of a call by public safety or emergency
services personnel; or

      (3)   Is programmed for transmission directly to any public safety
facility.

   (B)   Within 60 days after the effective date of this article all
prohibited automatic dialing devices described in the above division
shall be disconnected.

(Prior Code, § 16-1-4) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 16-1-8

§ 16-1-5 FALSE ALARMS; NUISANCE DECLARED; ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES AND
PERMIT REVOCATION.

   (A)   Nuisance declared. The permitting of three or more false alarms
for a residential property and two or more false alarms for a commercial
property in a 365-day period shall constitute a public nuisance,
punishable under this chapter.

   (B)   Grace period.

      (1)   Newly leased, rented, purchased and/or monitored alarms or
alarm systems shall not be subject to provisions of the article relating
to the counting and assessment of false alarms for a period of thirty
(30) days from the date the alarm or alarm system becomes operational.

      (2)   The grace period provided in division (B)(1) of this section
shall apply only if the alarm user notifies the coordinator in writing
within 10 days of the completion of installation or reinstallation. The
written notice shall specify the date the system was installed or
reinstalled. For reinstalled alarm systems, the notice shall also
describe the nature and extent of the reinstallation.

   (C)   Police review of false alarms.

      (1)   Any residential alarms system which has three or more false
alarms or any commercial alarm system which has two or more false alarms
within the permit year shall be subject to an assessment as provided
below in division (C)(2)(e) of this section.

      (2)   If the police department records two or more false alarms
within the permit year:

         (a)   The coordinator shall notify the alarm user of the fact
and direct that a report be submitted to the coordinator within ten (10)
days from the date of the notice. The report shall contain a description
of the action taken or to be taken to discover and eliminate the cause
of the false alarm, and specific defenses, if any, why the alleged false
alarms should not be considered false alarms. Evidence that a false
alarm was caused by an act of nature, common cause, cancellation of
alarm dispatch request from the alarm company, or action of the
telephone or utility company, shall constitute affirmative defenses to
an assessment for a false alarm.

         (b)   If the report above is not timely received by the
coordinator, any notified party shall be deemed to have waived the right
to any further review or hearing as provided herein, and the alarm user
operating the alarm system generating the false alarms will be assessed
pursuant to division (C)(2)(e) of this section.

         (c)   If the report required by division (C)(2)(a) of this
section is submitted, the coordinator shall review the corrective action
taken or to be taken to discover and eliminate the cause of the false
alarms and the specific defenses, if any, set forth in the report. If it
is determined that the corrective action taken or to be taken will
substantially reduce the likelihood of false alarms or that a valid
defense to the initial determination of false alarm has been accepted,
the coordinator will send a notice within thirty (30) days that no
assessment will be made at that time. The notice shall specifically set
forth the conclusions of the coordinator with respect to the review of
the report submitted.

         (d)   If the coordinator determines that the action taken or to
be taken will not substantially reduce the likelihood of false alarms or
that a defense to the initial determination of false alarms has not been
alleged or accepted, a notice shall be sent to the alarm user that the
alarm user will be assessed a false alarm assessment pursuant to
division (C)(2)(e) of this section. The notice of decision shall contain
the specific findings and conclusions of the coordinator.

         (e)   An alarm user shall be assessed a fee for each false
alarm, pursuant to the fee schedule set forth in Apache Junction City
Code, Vol. I, Chapter 4: Fees, Article 4-7, Public Safety Fee Schedule,
§ 4-7-1(J), Security Alarm Permit Fees. The alarm user will not,
however, be assessed any fee amounts for the first two false alarms for
a residential property and the first false alarm for a commercial
property.

         (f)   If the alarm user fails to pay the assessment within the
time provided after receipt of written notification from the coordinator
as provided in this section, the coordinator may summarily revoke the
alarm user permit.

         (g)   An alarm user whose permit has been revoked shall be
furnished written notification of the revocation and shall within three
days after the issuance of the written notification discontinue the use
of the alarm system with respect to which a permit has been revoked.

         (h)   An alarm user whose alarm user permit has been revoked
may have it reinstated by paying all overdue assessments, submit a
corrective report detailing the corrective action taken with proof of
inspection for malfunctions, and pay a reinstatement fee as set forth in
Apache Junction City Code, Vol. I, Chapter 4: Fees, Article 4-7, Public
Safety Fee Schedule, § 4-7-1(J) , Security Alarm Permit Fees.

         (i)   Any non-registered alarm user shall be assessed false
alarm fees pursuant to the fee schedule as set forth in Apache Junction
City Code, Vol. I, Chapter 4: Fees, Article 4-7, Public Safety Fee
Schedule, A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 4-7-1(J), Security Alarm Permit Fees. For
each subsequent false alarm beyond two, the police department will not
respond and alarm user may be subject to criminal and/or civil charges,
penalties and fees pursuant to A.J.C.C., Vol. I, § 16-1-8.

(Prior Code, § 16-1-5) (Am. Ord. 1434, passed 1-17-2017) Penalty, see
Vol. I, § 16-1-8

§ 16-1-6 GENERAL REGULATIONS.

   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally
activate any alarm or alarm system for any reason other than to warn of
an actual emergency.

      (2)   This section shall not apply to the testing of alarms or
alarm systems when the testing has been done in accordance with the
prescribed guidelines set by the Police Department and when the Police
Department has been given advance notice of the testing.

   (B)   No alarm user shall allow an audible alarm to sound in excess
of 15 minutes.

   (C)   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the Chief of
Police may, whenever he or she shall have knowledge of the use of any
device or attachment not operated or maintained in accordance with the
provisions of this article, order the deactivation of the device or
attachment until the requirements are met.

(Prior Code, § 16-1-6) Penalty, see Vol. I, § 16-1-8

§ 16-1-7 APPEAL PROCEDURES.

   (A)   (1)   A party may appeal any decision made by the coordinator
under this article to a hearing officer so designated by the City
Manager by filing the appeal with the City Clerk's office.

      (2)   The request for an appeal shall set forth the specific
objections to the decision of the coordinator.

      (3)   The hearing officer shall set a time and place for the
hearing within 10 days of receipt of the appeal.

   (B)   The decision of the hearing officer shall be based upon the
evidence presented. If the hearing officer affirms the decision of the
coordinator, the imposed assessment and/or permit revocation shall
remain in effect. If the hearing officer overrules the decision of the
coordinator, in whole or part, no assessment shall be imposed, and the
permit shall immediately be reinstated.

   (C)   The decision of the hearing officer is final. The losing party
may initiate the appropriate action in Pinal County Superior Court.

(Prior Code, § 16-1-7)

§ 16-1-8 PENALTY.

   (A)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be guilty of a Class 1 Misdemeanor, and shall be subject
to the penalty and multiple charging provisions set forth in Vol. I, §
1-1-11.

      (2)   Revocation of a permit shall not be a defense against
prosecution.

   (B)   Conviction under this chapter shall not relieve the person from
paying the permit fee or false alarm fees which have been assessed. The
city may also pursue all violations of this chapter civilly.

   (C)   (1)   Any unpaid amounts assessed pursuant to this chapter
shall also be deemed a civil debt to the city and shall be collected by
the city through the civil process, in a court of competent
jurisdiction.

      (2)   All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of 1 or more
remedies shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter.

(Prior Code, § 16-1-8)

PARALLEL REFERENCES

References to Arizona Revised Statutes

References to Prior Code

References to Ordinances

REFERENCES TO ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES

 

  -------------------------- -----------------------------
  A.R.S. Section             Code Section
  1-211 - 1-215              1-1-3
  3-201                      9-1-2
  3-1311                     6-3-8
  4-101                      10-1-22
  9-27-1B.3.(a)              3-2-3
  9-240A.13                  11-1-2
  9-240B.21                  9-1-1
  9-276A.16                  9-1-1 , 11-1-2
  9-276A.19                  9-1-1
  9-302                      2-1-7
  9-411 - 9-419              2-7-1
  9-411 - 9-420              3-11-2
  9-499                      9-1-1
  9-499.07                   5-1-11
  9-500.05                   3-7-7
  9-500.21                   9-1-4
  9-500.32                   6-1-8
  9-505 et seq.              14-1-4
  9-506D.1                   14-1-8
  9-507B                     14-1-6
  9-509                      14-1-10
  9-581 - 9-583              13-4, App. B
  9-591 - 9-599              13-4, App. B
  9-591.13                   13-4, App. A
  9-591.19                   4-6-2, 13-4, App. B
  9-591.19(a)                13-4, App. A
  9-591.19(b)                13-4, App. A
  9-591.21                   13-4, App. A
  9-592I                     13-4, App. A
  9-592J                     13-4, App. A
  9-594                      4-6-2, 13-4, App. B
  9-802                      9-5-1
  9-821.01                   2-3-1
  11-952D                    3-7-17
  11-952E                    3-7-17
  11-952F                    3-7-17
  11-1014                    6-7-3
  11-1024                    6-1-8
  11-1024J.5                 15-1-3
  12-124                     9-1-4, 9-5-16
  Title 12, Ch. 7, Art. 2    7-1-4
  12-901 et seq.             13-2-3
  12-940 - 12-945            3-7-9
  Title 13                   10-1-31
  13-803                     8-11-12
  13-1401 - 13-1424          8-11-5
  13-1504                    9-1-4
  13-1802                    10-4-3
  13-1807                    10-4-3
  13-2301D.4                 8-11-5
  13-2729F.7                 15-1-1
  13-2910                    6-1-7, 6-1-8, 6-3-5, 15-1-3
  13-2910.01                 6-1-7, 6-1-8
  13-3101                    3-14-1
  13-3201 - 13-3214          8-11-5
  13-3214                    5-1-11
  13-3401                    8-12-6
  13-3401 - 13-3424          8-11-5
  13-3401.01 et seq.         8-12-1
  13-3551 - 13-3559          8-11-5
  13-3601                    5-1-11
  Title 13, Chapter 39       10-3-4
  Title 15                   8-1-1
  15-802                     10-1-29
  15-802D.1 - 7              10-1-29
  Title 16                   1-1-19
  16-101                     1-1-23
  16-204                     2-3-6
  Title 19                   1-1-17 - 1-1-21
  19-111                     1-1-17, 1-1-20
  21-331                     5-1-9
  23-214A                    13-4, App. B
  26-301 et seq.             2-16-2, 2-16-3
  26-307                     2-16-2
  26-307C                    2-16-2
  26-307D                    2-16-2
  26-311                     2-16-2
  26-312                     2-16-3
  26-314                     2-16-5
  Title 28                   10-7-2
  Title 28, Ch. 6, Art. 20   1-1-11
  Title 28, Ch. 6, Art. 21   1-1-11
  Title 28, Ch. 8, Art. 5    12-3-6
  Title 28, Ch. 20, Art. 8   13-2-4
  28-627                     12-5-3
  28-886                     12-5-4
  28-958G                    3-5-5
  28-1098                    9-5-9
  28-1099                    12-4-2
  28-1100                    12-4-2
  28-1101                    12-4-8
  28-1103                    12-4-6
  28-1144                    12-4-6
  28-1381                    5-1-11
  28-13811                   5-1-11
  28-1381K                   5-1-11
  28-1382                    5-1-11
  28-1382D                   5-1-11
  28-1382E                   5-1-11
  28-2409                    12-3-8
  28-4881                    9-1-2
  Title 32                   8-5-5, 8-8-4, 8-8-6
  32-144                     7-1-6
  Title 32, Ch. 15           7-2-2, 7-9-2
  Title 32, Ch. 1            3-7-2
  Title 32, Ch. 18           8-12-3
  Title 32, Ch. 42           8-1-1, 8-5-2, 8-5-5
  32-4201.5                  8-5-1
  34-603                     3-7-7
  34-605 et seq.             3-7-19
  34-605F.1                  3-7-19
  36-151                     7-2-2, 7-9-2
  36-401                     7-2-2, 7-9-2
  36-405                     7-9-2
  36-551                     7-2-2, 7-9-2
  36-1601 - 36.1610          11-1-8
  36-2939C                   7-9-2
  38-260                     2-1-7
  Title 36, Art. 4           8-1-3
  38-452 et seq.             2-13-2
  38-503                     3-7-14
  38-841 et seq.             2-21-3
  38-847A                    2-21-3
  38-847B                    2-21-3
  39-101 et seq.             14-1-14
  39-204                     3-7-6
  Title 41, Ch. 9, Art. 7    7-2-2, 7-3-1
  Title 41, Ch. 9, Art. 8    7-1-2, 7-2-2, 7-3-1 
  41-1346 et seq.            3-9-3
  41-4001                    7-1-11, 9-1-2
  41-4048C                   7-1-11
  41-4401                    13-4, App. B
  42-09B                     8-11-2
  42-6201 et seq.            13-4, App. B
  42-6206                    13-4, App. B
  Title 44, Ch. 11, Art. 3   8-4-2
  44-6852                    4-2-1
  Title 48, Ch. 4            13-2-6
  49-704                     9-5-2
  49-765                     9-5-2
  49-901 et seq.             13-4, App. B
  49-921.5                   9-5-3
                              
  -------------------------- -----------------------------

 

REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE

 

  -------------------- -------------------
  Prior Code Section   2009 Code Section
  Art. 1-1             1-1-1
  Art. 1-2             1-1-2
  Art. 1-3             1-1-3
  Art. 1-5             1-1-8
  Art. 1-6             1-1-9
  Art. 1-7             1-1-10
  Art. 1-8             1-1-11
  Art. 1-10            1-1-14
  Art. 2-14            2-14-2
  Art. 3-10            3-10-1
  Art. 4-7             4-7-1
  Art. 4-8             4-8-1
  1-4-1                1-1-4
  1-4-2                1-1-5
  1-4-3                1-1-6
  1-4-4                1-1-7
  1-9-1                1-1-12
  1-9-2                1-1-13
  1-11-1               1-1-15
  1-11-2               1-1-16
  1-11-3               1-1-17
  1-11-4               1-1-18
  1-12-1               1-1-19
  1-12-2               1-1-20
  1-12-3               1-1-21
  1-13-1               1-1-22
  1-13-2               1-1-23
  2-1-1                2-1-1
  2-1-2                2-1-2
  2-1-5                2-1-5
  2-1-6                2-1-6
  2-1-7                2-1-7
  2-2-1                2-2-1
  2-2-2                2-2-2
  2-2-3                2-2-3
  2-2-4                2-2-4
  2-2-5                2-2-5
  2-2-6                2-2-6
  2-2-7                2-2-7
  2-2-8                2-2-8
  2-3-1                2-3-1
  2-3-2                2-3-2
  2-3-3                2-3-3
  2-3-4                2-3-4
  2-3-5                2-3-5
  2-4-1                2-4-1
  2-4-2                2-4-2
  2-4-3                2-4-3
  2-4-4                2-4-4
  2-4-5                2-4-5
  2-4-6                2-4-6
  2-4-7                2-4-7
  2-4-8                2-4-8
  2-5-1                2-5-1
  2-5-2                2-5-2
  2-5-3                2-5-3
  2-5-4                2-5-4
  2-5-5                2-5-5
  2-5-6                2-5-6
  2-5-7                2-5-7
  2-7-1                2-7-1
  2-7-2                2-7-2
  2-7-3                2-7-3
  2-7-4                2-7-4
  2-7-5                2-7-5
  2-7-6                2-7-6
  2-7-7                2-7-7
  2-7-8                2-7-8
  2-8-1                2-8-1
  2-8-2                2-8-2
  2-8-3                2-8-3
  2-8-4                2-8-4
  2-8-5                2-8-5
  2-8-6                2-8-6
  2-8-7                2-8-7
  2-8-8                2-8-8
  2-10-1               2-10-1
  2-10-2               2-10-2
  2-10-3               2-10-3
  2-10-4               2-10-4
  2-10-5               2-10-5
  2-10-6               2-10-6
  2-10-7               2-10-7
  2-10-8               2-10-8
  2-10-9               2-10-9
  2-10-10              2-10-10
  2-10-11              2-10-11
  2-11-1               2-11-1
  2-11-2               2-11-2
  2-11-3               2-11-3
  2-11-4               2-11-4
  2-11-5               2-11-5
  2-11-6               2-11-6
  2-11-7               2-11-7
  2-11-8               2-11-8
  2-13-1               2-13-1
  2-13-2               2-13-2
  2-13-3               2-13-3
  2-15-1               2-15-1
  2-15-2               2-15-2
  2-15-3               2-15-3
  2-15-4               2-15-4
  2-15-5               2-15-5
  2-16-1               2-16-1
  2-16-2               2-16-2
  2-16-3               2-16-3
  2-16-4               2-16-4
  2-16-5               2-16-5
  2-16-6               2-16-6
  3-1-1                3-1-1
  3-1-2                3-1-2
  3-1-3                3-1-3
  3-1-4                3-1-4
  3-1-5                3-1-5
  3-1-6                3-1-6
  3-1-7                3-1-7
  3-1-8                3-1-8
  3-1-9                3-1-9
  3-1-10               3-1-10
  3-1-11               3-1-11
  3-2-1                3-2-1
  3-2-2                3-2-2
  3-2-3                3-2-3
  3-2-4                3-2-4
  3-2-5                3-2-5
  3-2-6                3-2-6
  3-3-1                3-3-1
  3-3-2                3-3-2
  3-3-3                3-3-3
  3-5-1                3-5-1
  3-5-2                3-5-2
  3-5-3                3-5-3
  3-5-4                3-5-4
  3-5-5                3-5-5
  3-5-6                3-5-6
  3-5-7                3-5-7
  3-6-1                3-6-1
  3-6-2                3-6-2
  3-6-3                3-6-3
  3-6-4                3-6-4
  3-6-5                3-6-5
  3-6-6                3-6-6
  3-9-1                3-9-1
  3-9-2                3-9-2
  3-9-3                3-9-3
  3-9-4                3-9-4
  3-9-5                3-9-5
  3-9-6                3-9-6
  3-11-1               3-11-1
  3-11-2               3-11-2
  3-13-1               3-13-1
  3-13-2               3-13-2
  3-13-3               3-13-3
  3-13-4               3-13-4
  10-1-2               10-1-2
  10-1-3               10-1-3
  10-1-4               10-1-4
  10-1-5               10-1-5
  10-1-6               10-1-6
  10-1-7               10-1-7
  10-1-9               10-1-9
  10-1-11              10-1-11
  10-1-12              10-1-12
  10-1-13              10-1-13
  10-1-14              10-1-14
  10-1-15              10-1-15
  10-1-16              10-1-16
  10-1-17              10-1-17
  10-1-18              10-1-18
  10-1-19              10-1-19
  10-1-20              10-1-20
  10-1-21              10-1-21
  10-1-22              10-1-22
  10-1-23              10-1-23
  10-1-24              10-1-24
  10-1-25              10-1-25
  10-1-26              10-1-26
  10-1-27              10-1-27
  10-1-28              10-1-28
  10-1-29              10-1-29
  10-2-1               10-2-1
  10-2-2               10-2-2
  10-2-3               10-2-3
  10-2-4               10-2-4
  10-2-5               10-2-5
  10-3-1               10-3-1
  10-3-2               10-3-2
  10-3-3               10-3-3
  10-3-4               10-3-4
  10-4-1               10-4-1
  10-4-2               10-4-2
  10-4-3               10-4-3
  10-4-4               10-4-4
  10-5-1               10-5-1
  10-5-2               10-5-2
  10-5-3               10-5-3
  10-5-4               10-5-4
  10-5-5               10-5-5
  10-5-6               10-5-6
  10-5-7               10-5-7
  10-6-1               10-6-1
  10-6-2               10-6-2
  10-6-3               10-6-3
  10-6-4               10-6-4
  10-6-5               10-6-5
  10-6-6               10-6-6
  10-6-7               10-6-7
  10-6-8               10-6-8
  10-6-9               10-6-9
  10-6-10              10-6-10
  10-7-1               10-7-1
  10-7-2               10-7-2
  10-7-3               10-7-3
  10-7-4               10-7-4
  10-7-5               10-7-5
  10-7-6               10-7-6
  10-7-7               10-7-7
  11-1-1               2-22-1
  11-1-2               2-22-2
  11-1-3               2-22-3
  11-1-4               2-22-4
  11-1-5               2-22-5
  11-1-6               2-22-6
  11-1-7               2-22-7
  12-1-1               12-1-1
  12-1-2               12-1-2
  12-1-3               12-1-3
  12-1-4               12-1-4
  12-1-5               12-1-5
  12-2-1               12-2-1
  12-2-2               12-2-2
  12-2-3               12-2-3
  12-2-4               12-2-4
  12-2-5               12-2-5
  12-2-6               12-2-6
  12-2-7               12-2-7
  12-2-8               12-2-8
  12-2-9               12-2-9
  12-2-10              12-2-10
  12-2-11              12-2-11
  12-2-12              12-2-12
  12-2-13              12-2-13
  12-2-14              12-2-14
  12-2-15              12-2-15
  12-3-1               12-3-1
  12-3-2               12-3-2
  12-3-3               12-3-3
  12-3-4               12-3-4
  12-3-5               12-3-5
  12-3-6               12-3-6
  12-3-7               12-3-7
  12-3-8               12-3-8
  12-3-9               12-3-9
  12-4-1               12-4-1
  12-4-2               12-4-2
  12-4-3               12-4-3
  12-4-4               12-4-4
  12-4-5               12-4-5
  12-4-6               12-4-6
  12-4-7               12-4-7
  12-4-8               12-4-8
  16-1-1               16-1-1
  16-1-2               16-1-2
  16-1-3               16-1-3
  16-1-4               16-1-4
  16-1-5               16-1-5
  16-1-6               16-1-6
  16-1-7               16-1-7
  16-1-8               16-1-8
                        
  -------------------- -------------------

 

REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES

 

  ---------- ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Code Section
  659        11-3-1998     2-14-1
  869        - -           12-4-2
  1253       1-3-2006      8-12-1 - 8-12-7
  1255       1-3-2006      9-1-1 - 9-1-4, 9-2-1 - 9-2-4, 9-3-1 - 9-3-3, 9-4-1 - 9-4-7, 9-6-1, 9-6-2
  1263       4-4-2006      4-7-1
  1267       5-2-2006      2-4-1 - 2-4-8, 2-5-1 - 2-5-7
  1273       9-5-2006      7-1-1, 7-1-10 - 7-1-12, 7-2-1, 7-2-2, 7-5-1, 7-5-2, 7-6-1, 7-6-2, 7-7-1, 7-7-2, 7-9-1, 7-9-2, 7-12-2
  1274       9-5-2006      4-4-1, 4-4-2, 4-4-4
  1278       10-3-2006     4-4-1, 4-4-3
  1285       2-20-2007     3-14-1
  1292       3-20-2007     7-4-1
  1296       5-1-2007      8-3-1 - 8-3-3, 8-4-1 - 8-4-3, 8-5-1 - 8-5-4, 8-5-6, 8-5-7, 8-6-1 - 8-6-5, 8-7-1 - 8-7-3, 8-11-1 - 8-11-12
  1316       2-19-2008     9-1-3, 10-1-30 - 10-1-32
  1311       4-15-2008     4-3-1
  1321       6-17-2008     3-6-3
  1328       10-27-2008    2-7-2, 2-8-2, 2-11-2, 2-15-2, 2-21-1 - 2-21-3, 2-22-2, 7-1-2
  1329       4-7-2009      9-6-2
  1332       1-20-2009     4-8-1
  1333       1-20-2009     4-7-1
  1342       7-7-2009      2-4-6
  1356       4-6-2010      12-1-1 - 12-1-5, 12-2-1 - 12-2-15, 12-3-1 - 12-3-11, 12-4-1 - 12-4-9, 12-5-1 - 12-5-7
  1357       2-16-2010     4-8-1
  1360       4-6-2010      3-5-1 - 3-5-7
  1366       8-3-2010      4-8-1
  1367       10-5-2010     8-3-1, 8-5-3, 8-5-8, 8-11-13, 8-11-14
  1370       1-4-2011      2-7-4
  1374       4-19-2011     3-14
  1380       4-3-2012      12-3-8, 12-5-7
  1392       7-2-2013      3-6-3
  1395       11-19-2013    4-2
  1400       5-6-2014      5-1-1 - 5-1-10
  1403       5-20-2014     9-4-4
  1413       2-3-2015      14-1-1 - 14-1-16
  1415       6-16-2015     4-1-1 - 4-1-7
  1416       6-16-2015     4-3-1
  1421       11-3-2015     8-5-5, 8-9-1 - 8-9-5
  1422       4-5-2016      4-4-3
  1424       5-19-2016     13-3-1 - 13-3-13
  1425       5-19-2016     4-6-1
  1434       1-17-2017     16-1-3, 16-1-5
  1435       1-17-2017     4-7-1
  1438       10-18-2016    2-1-3, 2-3-1
  1442       2-7-2017      15-1-1 - 15-1-4
  1445       4-4-2017      2-3-5
  1450       9-19-2017     8-1-1 - 8-1-4, 8-2-1 - 8-2-12, 8-8-1 - 8-8-8, 8-10-1 - 8-10-5
  1453       12-5-2017     13-4-1, 13-4 Appendix A, 13-4 Appendix B
  1454       12-5-2017     4-6-2
  1462       9-18-2018     3-7-1 - 3-7-18
  1464       12-4-2018     4-3-1
  1465       12-4-2018     6-1-1 - 6-1-11, 6-2-1 - 6-2-8, 6-3-1 - 6-3-9, 6-4-1, 6-5-1 - 6-5-3, 6-6-1 - 6-6-3, 6-7-1 - 6-7-6, 6-8-1, 6-9-1, 6-9-2
  1466       11-20-2018    5-1-11
  1467       12-4-2018     9-1-1 - 9-1-4
  1469       3-19-2019     4-4-1 - 4-4-4
  1475       6-19-2019     7-1-1 - 7-1-12, 7-2-1, 7-2-2, 7-3-1, 7-3-2, 7-4-1, 7-4-2, 7-5-1, 7-5-2, 7-6-1, 7-6-2, 7-7-1, 7-7-2, 7-8-1, 7-8-2, 7-9-1, 7-9-2, 7-10-1, 7-10-2, 7-11-1, 7-11-2, 7-12-1, 7-12-2
  1476       6-18-2019     3-9-4
  1478       9-17-2019     2-9-1 - 2-9-8
  1482       12-17-2019    4-4-1 - 4-4-3
  1483       12-3-2019     9-5-1 - 9-5-16
  1485       3-3-2020      7-1-9, 7-1-11
  1492       8-18-2020     11-1-1 - 11-1-9
  1493       8-18-2020     10-1-12
  1498       1-20-2021     4-4-3
  1507       11-16-2021    4-1-1 - 4-1-7
  1512       9-21-2021     5-1-1 - 5-1-11
  1519       12-7-2021     2-11-1 - 2-11-8
  1520       12-7-2021     2-7-2, 2-8-2, 2-9-2, 2-15-2, 2-21-1 - 2-21-3, 2-22-2, 7-1-5
  1522       2-15-2022     3-7-19
  1529       10-18-2022    3-2-3, 3-2-5, 3-3-2
  1534       3-21-2023     2-9-2
  1538       12-19-2023    2-8-3, 2-8-4, 2-8-8
  1539       12-19-2023    3-13-3
  1544       4-2-2024      9-1-2
  1550       8-6-20224     4-3-1
  1551       8-6-20224     4-7-1
  1552       10-15-2024    2-21-3
  1554       11-5-2024     9-1-4
  1564       5-20-2025     8-1-1, 8-2-7
                            
  ---------- ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
