ADELANTO, CALIFORNIA
MUNICIPAL CODE

A Codification of the General Ordinances of the City of Adelanto,
California

[]

2025 S-52 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance No. 567, passed 6-11- 25

 

Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com

HISTORY

The City of Adelanto was incorporated December 22, 1970. City Codes were
established but not codified. In 1976 the first attempt to codify the
City's Code was accomplished by two graduate students. From 2003 — 2007
the codification of ordinances were compiled, edited, and indexed under
the direction of the City's Attorney. Beginning in 2008, the Code is
maintained electronically by American Legal Publishing.

PREFACE
ADELANTO MUNICIPAL CODE

The Adelanto Municipal Codes is the collection of City ordinances that
the City Councils have adopted over the years. It is a living document
and is continually amended to better reflect the community standards
that the citizens have expressed to the City leaders.

The City is granted the authority to create these local ordinances that
become law through provisions of the California Government Code. Copies
of the Adelanto Municipal Code are available as an electronic searchable
version or in the City Clerk's office.

This Municipal Code contains those ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted from time to time and those ordinances which are
considered desirable for retention. If you are unable to find what you
are looking for online, please call 760-246-2300 ext. 3018 for
additional assistance.

What is an Ordinance?

Ordinances are the laws of the Municipality (city). City Councils may
pass Ordinances which become the City's Municipal Code. These Ordinances
or laws may be passed by the City Council as long as they are not in
conflict with federal or state laws.

An Ordinance is the most binding form of action taken by the City
Council, and violations may be either a misdemeanor or an infraction
depending upon the way the Ordinance is written.

What is a Resolution?

A Resolution constitutes a written action or decision. However, it does
not demand the legal processing required of an Ordinance. A Resolution
is generally introduced and adopted at the same meeting.

How is an Ordinance approved?

Approval of an Ordinance requires a first and second reading. With a few
special exceptions, Ordinances take effect 30 days after they are
adopted (at the second reading). Ordinances must be signed by the Mayor
and attested by the City Clerk.

I. HOW TO USE THE ADELANTO MUNICIPAL CODE

This code is organized to make the laws of the city as accessible as
possible to city officials, city employees and private citizens. Please
take a moment to familiarize yourself with some of the important
elements of this code.

Numbering System. The numbering system is the backbone of a code of
ordinances; American Legal Publishing uses a unique and versatile
numbering structure that allows for easy expansion and amendment of this
code. It is based on three tiers, beginning with title, then chapter,
and ending with section. Each part is represented in the code section
number. For example, Section 2.040.010 is Section .010, in Chapter 2.04
of Title 2.

Title. A title is a broad category under which ordinances on a related
subject are compiled. For example, the first title is Title 1, General
Provisions, which may contain ordinances about the general penalty, code
adoption and definitions. The titles in this code are separated by
tabbed divider pages for quick reference. Some titles are Reserved for
later use.

Chapter. Chapters deal with more specific subjects, and are often
derived from one ordinance. All of the chapters on a related subject are
grouped in one title. The chapters are numbered so that new chapters
which should logically be placed near certain existing chapters can be
added at a later time without renumbering existing material. For
example, Chapter 2.06, City Manager, can be added between 2.04, City
Council, and Chapter 2.08, City Attorney.

Section. Each section of the code contains substantive ordinance
material. The sections are numbered by "tens" to allow for expansion of
the code without renumbering.

Table of Contents. There are many tables of contents in this code to
assist in locating specific information. At the beginning of the code is
the main table of contents listing each title. In addition, each title
and chapter has its own table of contents listing the chapters and
sections, respectively.

Ordinance History Note. At the end of each code section, you will find
an "ordinance history note," which lists the underlying ordinances for
that section. The ordinances are listed by number, section (if
applicable) and year (example: [Ord. No. 332, Section 1, adopted
5/27/97.]). The notation "(part)" is used when the code section contains
only part of the ordinance (or section of the ordinance) specified; this
indicates that there are other areas of the code affected by the same
ordinance (or section of the ordinance).

References to Ordinances Table. To find a specific ordinance in the
Code, turn to the section called "Tables" for the References to
Ordinances. This table tells you the status of ordinances included in
the Code beginning with Ordinance 415. The table is organized by
ordinance number and provides the disposition of the ordinance. If the
ordinance is codified, the Code section will be indicated. (Example:
2.04.060.) When an ordinance is repealed, the disposition will be
changed to "(Repealed by Ord….)" with the appropriate ordinance number.

Statutory References. The statutory references direct the code user to
those portions of the state statues that are applicable to the laws of
the municipality.

Index. An index to the Code is located at the back of the code book.

Instruction Sheet. Each supplement to the new Code will be accompanied
by an Instruction Sheet. This guide will list the pages that must be
pulled from the Code and the new pages that must be inserted. Following
these instructions carefully will assure that the Code is kept accurate
and current.

II. PROCEDURE FOR DRAFTING ORDINANCES

This Code has been codified using a logical, expandable numbering system
to allow for additions, repeals or amendments. When drafting ordinances,
it is important to designate, within the ordinance, what specific
portions of the Code are affected. The ordinance(s) underlying the
section being changed can be determined from the ordinance history note
in parentheses at the end of each section.

Effect of Title.

The title of an ordinance and any introductory language appearing before
the ordaining clause has no legal effect. The title may state that the
ordinance repeals (or amends or adds) certain provisions, but in order
for these changes to be effective, the intended repeal, amendment or
addition must be set out following the ordaining clause.

Procedure When Amending Existing Code Material.

Amend the Code section specifically. The underlying ordinance section
may also be included.

Examples:   § 3.04.020 of the ____________ Municipal Code is amended to
read as follows:

      § 3 of Ord. 319 and § 3.04.020 of the ____________ Municipal Code
are amended to read as follows:

If only a portion of a section is being amended, designate the specific
portion:

Example:   § 3.04.050(A)(2) of the ____________ Municipal Code is
amended to read as follows:

Procedure When Repealing Existing Code Material.

When repealing material, designate the specific portion of the Code to
be repealed. Include the underlying ordinance section if you wish;
however, we consider both Code section and underlying ordinance to be
repealed whether you mention the underlying ordinance or not.

Examples:   § 3.04.020 of the ____________ Municipal Code is repealed.

      § 3 of Ord. 319 and § 3.04.020 of the ____________ Municipal Code
are repealed.

      Subsection B of § 3.04.020 of the ____________ Municipal Code is
repealed.

Procedure When Adding New Material to Code.

When new provisions are to be added to the Code, you should determine
where the material would best fit within the subject matter of the
existing section, chapter or title. If there is no existing section,
chapter or title, you should assign a new section, chapter or title
number. Our expandable decimal numbering system is designed to allow for
the incorporation of new material without disturbing the numbering
system of existing material.

The following language is sufficient to locate new material in the Code:

   Subsection D is added to § 5.10.040 of the ____________ Municipal
Code, to read as follows:

   § 5.10.040 of the ____________ Municipal Code, to read as follows:

   Chapter 12.07 is added to the ____________ Municipal Code, to read as
follows:

If you have any questions as to the proper placement of a new provision,
please contact us.

The Charter
of the
City of Adelanto

The Charter was ratified by the qualified electors of the City at an
election held on November 3, 1992.

First Amendment (Section 601) November 5, 2002

Second Amendment (Section 601) November 2, 2004

   We, the people of the City of Adelanto, County of San Bernardino,
State of California, do ordain and establish this Charter as the organic
law of said City under and by virtue of the Constitution of the said
State.

ARTICLE I.
STATUS OF CITY

   § 100.   Name of City.

   § 101.   Boundaries.

   § 102.   Effective date of Charter.

ARTICLE II.
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION OF CHARTER

   § 200.   Definitions.

   § 201.   Reference to laws.

ARTICLE III.
SUCCESSION.

   § 300.   Rights and liabilities.

   § 301.   Validation of prior acts.

   § 302.   Continuation of status of officers & employees.

   § 303.   Public contracts.

   § 304.   Pending proceedings

ARTICLE IV.
POWERS OF CITY.

   § 400.   Powers.

   § 401.   Limitation of powers.

   § 402.   Exercise of powers.

   § 403.   Joint powers.

ARTICLE V.
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.

   § 500.   Conduct of elections.

   § 501.   Elective officers.

   § 502.   Qualifications for elective office.

   § 503.   Incumbent elective officers.

   § 504.   Rights reserved to the electorate.

   § 505.   Vacancies.

ARTICLE VI.
CITY COUNCIL

   § 600.   Legislative body.

   § 601.   Mayor - Mayor Pro Tempore.

   § 602.   Vacancies in elective offices.

   § 603.   Council meetings.

   § 604.   Reimbursement for expenses.

   § 605.   Compensation of councilors.

   § 606.   Ordinances.

   § 607.   Contracts.

   § 608.   Franchises.

   § 609.   Interference with administrative service.

   § 610.   Conflict of interest.

   § 611.   Indemnification.

   § 612.   Continuity.

ARTICLE VII.
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS

   § 700.   Form of government.

   § 701.   Appointive offices.

   § 702.   City Manager, appointment, qualification, compensation.

   § 703.   City Manager duties.

   § 704.   City Attorney, appointment, qualification, compensation.

   § 705.   City Attorney duties.

   § 706.   City Attorney, deputies, special counsel.

   § 707.   City Clerk, appointment, qualifications, compensation.

   § 708.   City Treasurer, appointment, qualifications, compensation.

   § 709.   Bonds.

   § 710.   Continuity.

ARTICLE VIII.
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

   § 800.   Miscellaneous and safety employees.

   § 801.   Merit system, establishment.

   § 802.   Retirement.

   § 803.   Compensation.

ARTICLE IX.
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

   § 900.   Fiscal year.

   § 901.   Budget — Submission to City Council.

   § 902.   Budget — Appropriations.

   § 903.   Tax levies.

   § 904.   Imposition of other taxes.

   § 905.   Tax procedure.

   § 906.   Debt.

   § 907.   Claims against the City.

   § 908.   Payment of claims and demands.

ARTICLE X.
BOARD OF EDUCATION

   § 1000.   Effect of Charter on school districts.

   § 1001.   Application of state law.

ARTICLE XI.
CITY BOARD AND COMMISSIONS

   § 1100.   Creation of commissions.

   § 1101.   Enabling ordinances.

   § 1102.   Appropriation of funds.

   § 1103.   Appointment and removal of members.

   § 1104.   Meetings — Conduct of.

   § 1105.   Compensation — Expenses.

   § 1106.   Secretary — Records.

   § 1107.   Existing commissions.

ARTICLE XII.
VIOLATION — VALIDITY

   § 1200.   Violations.

   § 1201.   Validity.

PREAMBLE

   We, the people of the City of Adelanto, County of San Bernardino,
State of California, do ordain and establish this Charter as the organic
law of said City under and by virtue of the Constitution of the said
State.

ARTICLE I
STATUS OF CITY

SECTION 100. NAME OF CITY.

   The general law city, in existence prior to the effective date of
this Charter, known as the "City of Adelanto", shall be deemed, for all
purposes, to continue in existence, as a chartered city, from and after
the effective date of this Charter. Said City, as a chartered city,
shall continue to be known as the "City of Adelanto" (hereinafter
"City").

SECTION 101. BOUNDARIES.

   The boundaries of the City of Adelanto, as a chartered city, shall be
identical to the boundaries of said City of Adelanto, a general law
city, as were lawfully in existence as of the effective date of this
Charter. After the effective date of this Charter, the boundaries may be
altered only as provided by applicable or general law.

SECTION 102. EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARTER. (November 3, 1992)

   This Charter shall be effective from and after the date of its
approval by the electorate of the City of Adelanto and filed with the
Secretary of State.

ARTICLE II
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION OF CHARTER

SECTION 200. DEFINITIONS.

   (subsection (v) amended at November 5, 2002, General Election)

   For the purpose of this Charter, the following words and phrases
shall be deemed to have the meanings hereinafter ascribed to them,
unless from the context thereof a contrary meaning is clearly intended:

   (a)    “Adjudicated Newspaper” shall mean a newspaper which is
adjudicated as such pursuant to the provisions of Section 6000 et seq of
the Government Code of the State of California.

   (b)   “Applicable Law” shall mean an enactment of the California
Legislature which lawfully governs, allows or regulates activities of
cities having a charter adopted pursuant to the provisions of the State
of California.

   (c)   “Appointive Officer” shall mean those officers designated as
such by this Charter.

   (d)   “Brown Act” shall mean that Act of the State Legislature
entitled as such, as the same now exists or as the same may hereinafter
be lawfully amended, designed as Section 64950 et seq of the Government
code.

   (e)   "Charter" shall mean this Charter as it now exists, or as it
may hereinafter be amended.

   (f)   "City” shall mean the City of Adelanto established as a charter
city by this Charter.

   (g)   "City Attorney" shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and
acting City Attorney of City.

   (h)   "City Clerk" shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and
acting City Clerk of City.

   (i)   "City Council" shall mean the legislative body of City.

   (j)   "City Manager" shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and
acting City Manager of City.

   (k)   "City Treasurer" shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and
acting City Treasurer of City.

   (l)   "Constitution" shall mean the Constitution of the State of
California.

   (m)    "Councilor" shall mean a member of the City Council of City.

   (n)   "County" shall mean County of San Bernardino.

   (o)   "Elections Code" shall mean the Elections Code of the State of
California as same exists as of the effective date of this Charter, and
as the same may hereinafter be amended by lawful authority.

   (p)   "Elective Officers" shall mean those officers designated as
such by this Charter.

   (q)   "Elector” shall mean any person who qualified for the right of
suffrage pursuant to Article 11, Section 1 of the Constitution of the
State.

   (r)   "Former City" shall mean the City of Adelanto, a general law
city, organized and existing as such, prior to the effective date of
this Charter, and, as to which the City is its successor in interest, by
reason of adoption of this Charter.

   (s)   "General Law" shall mean an enactment of the Legislature of the
State which lawfully governs, allows or regulates activities of a
general law city, as defined in Section 34100 of the Government Code of
the State of California, and which applies to the City of Adelanto,
solely by reason of the provision of this Charter, or on ordinance
adopted by the City Council of the City.

   (t)   "Government Code" shall mean the Government Code of the State
of California as the same exists as of the effective date of this
Charter, and as the same may hereinafter be amended by lawful authority.

   (u)   "May" is permissive.

   (v)   "Mayor" shall mean the duly elected, qualified and acting Mayor
of City.

   (w)    "Mayor Pro Tempore" shall mean the duly appointed, qualified
and acting Mayor Pro Tempore of City.

   (x)   "Municipal Affairs" shall mean those matters have been, and
continue to be, held to be such by courts of record in the State of
California.

   (y)   "Person" shall mean any person, firm, association,
organization, partnership, business, trust company or corporation, and
any municipal, political or governmental corporation, district, body or
agency, other than the City of Adelanto.

   (z)   "Registered Qualified Voter” shall mean an elector who is
lawfully registered, pursuant to applicable provisions of the Elections
Code, and is thus entitled to cast a ballot in any national, state or
local election held within the City.

   (aa)    "Shall" is mandatory.

   (bb)    "State" shall mean the State of California.

SECTION 201. REFERENCE TO LAWS.

   Wherever reference is made in this Chapter to any law or code
provisions enacted by the Legislature of the State, or to any
constitutional provision, said reference shall mean and include any
amendment thereto, enacted after the effective date of this Charter;
provided, however, if any such law is repealed in whole or in part, the
City Council, by ordinance, may enact provisions, consistent with this
Charter, covering the substance of such repealed legislation.

ARTICLE III
SUCCESSION

SECTION 300. RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.

   The City shall be deemed, for all purposes, to be the successor in
interest to the Former City. The said City shall succeed to own,
possess, hold and control all rights, including, but not limited to,
rights in and to personal and real property owned, possessed, controlled
or held by said Former City, as of the effective date of this Charter.
Said City shall be deemed, for all purposes, to be subject to all debts,
obligations, liabilities and duties of said Former City, as such existed
as of the effective date of the Charter.

SECTION 301. VALIDATION OF PRIOR ACTS.

   All lawful acts heretofore taken by, or on behalf of, the said Former
City, by its City Council, or any officer, employee, commission,
committee, or board thereof, shall be deemed for all purposes, to
continue in full force and effect from and after the effective date of
the Charter. The validation of such acts as provided for herein shall
include, but not be limited to, all lawful ordinances, resolutions,
rules, regulations, permits, or any portion thereof, in force as of the
effective date of this Charter, except to the extent that any such act
is inconsistent, in whole or in part, with any provisions of this
Charter; to that extent the same shall be subject to amendment,
modification or repeal by lawful authority pursuant to this Charter.

SECTION 302. CONTINUATION OF STATUS OF OFFICERS & EMPLOYEES.

   All officers and employees, including, but not limited to, Elective
Officers of the said Former City shall, as of the effective date of this
Charter, continue to perform the duties of their respective offices and
positions. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Charter, the
adoption hereof, as to such officers and employees, shall not affect or
impair any right, privilege or retirement benefit of such officers and
employees lawfully held by them as of the effective date of this
Charter. The tenure of, and the performance of duties by, all such
officers and employees shall be subject to, the provisions hereof.

SECTION 303. PUBLIC CONTRACTS.

   All contracts lawfully entered into by the said Former City, prior to
the effective date of this Charter, shall continue in full force and
effect, notwithstanding the adoption of this said Charter.

SECTION 304. PENDING PROCEEDINGS.

   Any action or proceeding, civil, criminal or administrative, pending
as of the effective date of this Charter, as to which the said Former
City, or any officer or employee thereof, is a party or participant
shall not be affected, altered or abated by reasons of the adoption of
this Charter or by any provisions hereof. Any such action or proceeding
shall be processed to its conclusion in accordance with all laws
applicable thereto, notwithstanding the adoption of this said Charter.

ARTICLE IV
POWERS OF CITY

SECTION 400. POWERS.

   The City, from and after the effective date hereof, shall have the
power to make and enforce all ordinances and regulations in respect to
Municipal Affairs, subject only to such restrictions and limitations as
may be provided in this Charter and in the Constitution. In addition,
the City shall also have the rights, powers and privileges heretofore or
hereafter established, granted or prescribed by any lawful authority as
a chartered city may lawfully exercise under and by virtue of the
Constitution, state statute or court decision.

SECTION 401. LIMITATION OF POWERS.

   The enumeration in this Charter of any specific power shall not be
deemed, for any purpose, to be a limitation upon the general grants of
powers, as set forth in this Charter.

SECTION 402. EXERCISE OF POWERS.

   The City shall exercise its powers in manner established by
applicable laws of the State, unless a different procedure is
established by this Charter or by an ordinance lawfully adopted by the
City Council of said City. Zoning authority and limitations shall be as
may be applicable to chartered cities.

SECTION 403. JOINT POWERS.

   The City may exercise all or any of the powers herein set forth
singly or jointly with other public agencies in the manner provided by
general law.

ARTICLE V
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS

SECTION 500. CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.

   Except as otherwise provided by ordinance, all municipal elections
hereafter conducted by or on behalf of the City shall be held and
processed in accordance with provisions of the Constitution and the
Elections and Government Codes.

SECTION 501. ELECTIVE OFFICERS.

   The Elective Officers of this City shall be five (5) members of the
City Council, each of whom shall hold the office of Councilor.

   Elective Officers of the City shall be elected for four (4) year
terms by the registered qualified voters of the City, on an at large
basis, at general or special municipal elections, held for that purpose.

SECTION 502. QUALIFICATIONS FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE.

   The qualifications for any person to hold an elective office of the
City shall be as follows:

   (a)   Any such person shall be an Elector, with the meaning of the
Constitution; and

   (b)   Any such person shall have been a bona fide resident of the
City for at least thirty (30) days next preceding the date of the
election at which he/she desires to be a candidate for such elective
office.

SECTION 503. INCUMBENT ELECTIVE OFFICERS.

   All of the incumbent Elective Officers of the Former City, shall
continue in such offices until the expiration of their respective terms
for which they were elected and until their successors are appointed or
elected, and qualified.

SECTION 504. RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE ELECTORATE.

   The electorate of the City, notwithstanding the adoption of this
Charter, reserve unto themselves the following processes:

   (a)   The right of referendum as to any legislative act taken by the
City Council; and

   (b)   The right of initiative, as to any legislative act the City
Council could legally effectuate; and

   (c)   The right of recall as to any Elective Officer of the City.

   Such reserved rights shall be exercisable only in accordance with and
subject to the limitations of the provisions of the Constitution and
laws for general law cities.

SECTION 505. VACANCIES.

   Vacancies in elective offices shall be deemed to occur under any of
the following circumstances:

   (a)   If, during the term of his/her office, an Elective Officer
dies; or

   (b)   If, during the term of his/her office, he/she ceases, for any
reason, to qualify as a registered voter and resident of the City; or

   (c)   If, during the term of his/her office, an Elective Officer of
the City files a written letter of resignation with the City Clerk,
his/her office shall be deemed vacant as of that date started in such
letter, or if no date is so stated in such letter, upon the date of its
filing; or

   (d)   If a City Councilor absents himself/herself, without the
consent of the City Council, from all regular City Council meetings for
a period of sixty (60) consecutive days from the last regular meeting of
the Council he/she attended, his/her office shall be deemed vacant;
provided that the consent of the City Council shall be given only for
good cause, but shall not be unreasonably withheld; or

   (e)   If an Elective Officer of the City is convicted of any crime
which involves moral turpitude, such office shall be deemed vacant as of
the date the judgment of conviction becomes final; and

   (f)   For any other reason applicable to general law cities.

ARTICLE VI
CITY COUNCIL

SECTION 600. LEGISLATIVE BODY.

   The City Council shall be the legislative body of the City.

SECTION 601. MAYOR - MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.

   (1st Amendment at November 5, 2002 General Election, 2nd Amendment
November 2, 2004 General Election)

   (a)   The office of the Mayor is hereby created. At the election next
following the election at which this amendment to the Charter is
confirmed, the Mayor of the City shall be elected directly by the
electorate. Commencing with the General Municipal Election in the 2006
duly elected Mayor shall serve for a term of four (4) years.

   (b)   The Mayor shall, in addition performance of his/her duties as
Mayor, preside at all City Council meetings, represent the City as the
ceremonial head of City Government, and perform such other acts as may
be required of him/her, as directed by the City Council, consistent with
this Charter, ordinance of the City, other applicable law, or law
applicable to general law cities with directly elected mayors. Except as
otherwise provided herein and/or provided by state law or ordinance of
the City, the elected Mayor shall be considered a regular voting member
of the City Council, for all purposes under, and subject to, the terms
of this Charter. In the case of the absence or disability of the Mayor,
the Mayor Pro Tempore shall act in his/her place and stead.

   (c)   By the affirmative vote of not less than three (3) members, the
City Council shall choose one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore, upon
the following occasions:

      (1)   In even numbered years, at the regular Council meetings held
for the purpose of canvassing the results of the General Municipal
Election; and

      (2)   In odd numbered years, at the first regular Council meeting
held during the month of December, or the next regular meeting of the
Council held thereafter; or

      (3)   At such other times as a majority of Council shall so order.

SECTION 602. VACANCIES IN ELECTIVE OFFICES.

   Any vacancy occurring in any elective office of the City may be
filled by the City Council, by resolution, adopted by affirmative votes
of a majority of the quorum of the then City Council. If the City
council fails, for any reason, to fill such vacancy within a period of
thirty (30) days from and after such office becomes vacant, it shall, as
maybe required by general law, call and hold an election to fill such
vacancy. A person appointed or elected to fill a vacancy in elective
office shall hold such office for the unexpired term of the former
incumbent.

   If at any time three (3) or more vacancies occur in elective offices
of the City, the following procedures shall take place:

   (a)   If such situation qualifies under the provisions of a disaster
as provided by applicable law and the City has provided for the
preservation of local government as provided there under, such
preservation shall be observed; or

   (b)   If such situation does not so qualify, or if such preservation
has not been provided, the Governor of the State of California shall
temporarily appoint qualified persons to such three (3) or more vacant
offices for the limited purpose hereinafter set forth. Upon such persons
being so appointed, the City Council, as thus constituted, shall meet
forthwith at a time and place to be selected by the City Clerk for the
purpose of calling a special election to elect qualified persons to the
office temporarily filled by such appointments. Such temporary
appointees shall continue to hold such elective offices until their
successors have been duly elected and qualified.

SECTION 603. COUNCIL MEETINGS.

   (a)   Time and Place. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be
conducted at such time and place as are established by ordinance.

   (b)   Open to the Public. Except as otherwise herein provided, each
and every meeting of the City Council, be it a regular or special
meeting or an adjourned regular or special meeting, shall be open to all
members of the general public.

   (c)   Application of Brown Act. Except as otherwise herein provided,
the provisions of the Brown Act shall apply to all meetings and acts of
the City Council and its members.

   (d)   Quorum. Three (3) members of the City Council shall constitute
a quorum for the purpose of transacting business of the City Council.

   (e)   Oaths. The Mayor, each member of the Council and the City Clerk
shall have the power to administer oaths or affirmations in proceedings
pending before the City Council.

   (f)   Subpoenas. The City Council shall have the power to compel, by
subpoena, the attendance of witnesses and the production of any relevant
evidence at any meeting of the City Council, or at any duly appointed
Board or Commission, or at any hearing held before any officer or
employee of the City. Subpoenas shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon
order of the City Council, in the name of the City, and shall be served
in the manner prescribed by applicable law for the service of subpoenas
in judicial actions. Disobedience to a subpoena or the refusal to
testify to relevant matters before the Council, except upon valid
constitutional grounds, shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as such.

   (g)   Rules for Proceedings. The City Council may establish rules for
the conduct of its proceedings, including, but not limited to, provision
for the punishment of any person who engages in disorderly conduct at a
City Council meeting.

SECTION 604. REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES.

   Councilors of the City shall be reimbursed for necessary expenses
actually incurred in the performance of official duties. Such
reimbursement shall not be made unless approved by the affirmative vote
of not less than three (3) members of the City Council. The City Council
shall establish a procedure for the reimbursement of other officers and
employees of the City for expenditures incurred by them in the
performance of official duties.

SECTION 605. COMPENSATION OF COUNCILORS.

   Compensation of Councilors, other than reimbursement for expenses,
may be established in the manner and amount as provided by general law,
relating to counciloric salaries in general law cities in this state.

SECTION 606. ORDINANCES.

   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter or by applicable law,
the enactment of ordinances by the City Council shall be accomplished in
accordance with the provisions of this Section.

   (a)   Meetings. Ordinances may be adopted at either regular, special
or adjourned regular or special meetings of the City Council.

   (b)   Adoption of Ordinances. Ordinances shall be adopted in the
manner and according to the procedure provided by general law, except as
modified herein.

   (c)   Effective Date of Ordinances. Ordinances shall be effective in
the time and manner provided by general law.

   (d)   Vote Required. No ordinance of this City shall become effective
unless the same is adopted by the affirmative votes of at least three
(3) members of the Council, except for ordinance by the adoption of
which this Charter or applicable or general law requires a greater
number of affirmative vote.

   (e)   Form. Each ordinance shall bear a title which shall briefly
describe the subject matter of the ordinance and shall contain the
following enacting clause: "The City Council of the City of Adelanto
does ordain..." Each ordinance adopted by the City Council shall be
signed by the Mayor, whose signature thereon shall be attested to by the
City Clerk.

   (f)   Violation. Penalty. A violation of any duly enacted ordinance
of the City shall constitute a misdemeanor which shall be prosecuted in
the manner prescribed by applicable law. The city Council, by ordinance,
shall provide for the place imprisonment for such violation and may
provide that persons convicted of a violation of any such ordinance may
be compelled to perform labor on public works of the City. Certain
violations may, by ordinance, be classified as infractions.

   (g)   Codification. Any and all ordinances of the City may be
compiled, consolidated, or recompiled and/or reconsolidated, and indexed
and arranged in a comprehensive municipal ordinance code. Such code may
be adopted by ordinance reference. Such code, if adopted by reference,
need not be published in the manner required for other ordinances
provided that

      (1)   Not less than three (3) copies thereof shall be on file in
the office of the City Clerk, available for examination by members of
the public prior to the adoption thereof; and

      (2)   The final adoption of such code shall not take place until a
public hearing is held before the City Council to allow interested
persons to express their views on such proposed Code; and

      (3)   Notice of such public hearings is given as required by
general law, and

      (4)   Detailed regulations pertaining to any subject, such as
building regulations, when arranged in a comprehensive code including
maps, charts or diagrams, may also be adopted by reference in the manner
provided in this Section, and

      (5)   Amendments to such code shall be enacted only by ordinance
and, if no adoption by reference is involved, the procedure set forth in
this subparagraph shall not apply to such adoption.

   (h)   Publication. Publication of ordinances shall be as provided for
general law cities.

SECTION 607. CONTRACTS.

   (a)    Council Action. No contract, for any purpose, shall obligate
the City, in any manner, unless and until such contract has been
approved or ratified, in written form, by the affirmative votes of not
less than three (3) members of the City Council, except:

      (1)   Where a contractual expenditure by the City budget adopted
by ordinance, City Council approval thereof shall be conclusively
presumed; and

      (2)   Where the City Manager reasonably determines that an
emergency immediately required the obtaining of goods or services,
he/she shall be empowered to contract for the same without prior City
Council approval, and such contract shall be a binding obligation of the
City. The authority of the City Manager hereunder as to a particular
emergency shall terminate at the next meeting of the City Council unless
specifically extended.

   (b)    Leases. No agreement for the lease of City-owned real property
to any person, for a non-municipal purpose, shall be valid unless the
City Council finds that the property proposed for such lease is not
required, and will not be so required during the term of the agreement,
for municipal purposes.

   (c)    Supplies and Equipment. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
Section relating to contracts, the City Council shall, by ordinance,
provide for the acquisition of equipment, materials or supplies, other
than for public works contracts, if same are included within a budget
approved by the City Council.

   (d)    Public Works Contracts. Except as otherwise provided by
ordinance, the City shall contract for the construction or
reconstruction of any public building, works, streets, drain, sewer,
utility, park or playground (hereinafter "Public Project") in the time
and manner and in accordance with general law.

      (i)   In determining the lowest responsible bidder, the City
Council may give reasonable preferences to local contractors.

      (ii)   The Council may, by ordinance, determine which contracts
will require competitive bids, bonds, insurance and other such
requirements, and which will not.

SECTION 608. FRANCHISES.

   Franchises shall be granted by the City Council in the time and
manner, and for such purposes, as may be prescribed or authorized by the
Constitution or by an applicable laws of this State, except as may be
provided by ordinance.

SECTION 609. INTERFERENCE WITH ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE.

   No member of the City Council shall interfere with the execution by
the City Manager of his/her powers and duties; nor shall any Councilor
direct the City Manager to appoint or remove an officer or employee of
the City, or to change, alter, delete or merge any department of the
City. Except for the purpose of inquiry, no Councilor shall deal with
the administrative services of the City except by and through the City
Manager; nor shall any Councilor give any order or direction on behalf
of the City to any subordinate officer or employee of the City. This
Section shall not apply during periods of disaster proclaimed by the
Governor or City Council; nor during such times as there shall be no
Council designated City Manager acting in that capacity.

SECTION 610. CONFLICT OF INTEREST.

   The lawful provisions of applicable and/or general law with regard to
conflict of interests prohibited interests and disclosure of assets
shall apply to and govern the activities of each Elective Officer of the
City.

SECTION 611. INDEMNIFICATION.

   The members of the City Council shall be provided with a defense and
indemnified against loss for good faith actions taken in the scope of
their employment as Councilors or members of the Community Redevelopment
Agency.

SECTION 612. CONTINUITY.

   The City Council may, by ordinance, set the number of successive
terms or years that a Councilor may serve.

ARTICLE VII
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS

SECTION 700. FORM OF GOVERNMENT.

   The system of government established by this Charter shall be known
as the "Council-Manager" form of government.

SECTION 701. APPOINTIVE OFFICES.

   The municipal offices, established by this Article, shall be known as
appointive offices of the City. Persons shall be appointed to and
removed from such offices by the City Council, in accordance with the
provisions hereof.

SECTION 702. CITY MANAGER, APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATION, COMPENSATION.

   The appointive office of City Manager for the City is hereby created.
The qualifications, appointment, salary, duties, tenure and discharge of
the City Manager shall be prescribed by ordinance of the City Council,
or as may be fixed by contract authorized by at least three (3) votes of
the City Council.

SECTION 703. CITY MANAGER DUTIES.

   The City Manager, or person acting in that capacity, shall perform
the duties provided by ordinance. The City Council shall provide a
defense for and indemnify him/her for any action brought against him/her
in the scope of his/her employment as Manager of the City or Community
Redevelopment Agency.

SECTION 704. CITY ATTORNEY, APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATION, COMPENSATION.

   The appointive office of City Attorney of City is hereby created. The
City Attorney shall be directly responsible to the City Council for the
performance of his/her duties, except as may be authorized by contract
or ordinance adopted by not less than three (3) votes of the City
Council.

   (a)   Appointment. A qualified person shall be appointed to the
office of City Attorney by resolution of the City Council, adopted by
the affirmative votes of not less than three (3) members thereof.

   (b)   Compensation. The City Council shall, from time to time, by
resolution, or contract, set the compensation for the office of City
Attorney.

   (c)   Qualifications. The qualifications, tenure, contractual
relation and discharge or suspension of the City Attorney shall be
provided by not less than three-fifths (3/5) vote of the City Council.

SECTION 705. CITY ATTORNEY DUTIES.

   The duties of the office of City Attorney shall be as follows:

   (a)   To act as the legal advisor for the City and to its officers
and employees in all matters relating to City affairs, and

   (b)   To appear and defend the City in all matters in civil
litigation involving the City and its officers and employees, except
those involving insurance coverage or Workers' Compensation. He/she
shall prosecute all violations of City ordinances, but may, with the
approval of the City Council, delegate such authority to the District
Attorney, and

   (c)   To prepare, or cause to be prepared, all ordinances,
resolutions, contracts, opinions and other legal documents as required
by the City Council relating to the affairs of the City, and

   (d)   To perform such other duties as may be required by the City
Council. The City Council shall provide a defense for, and indemnify,
the City Attorney for action brought against him/her in the scope of
his/her employment as Attorney for the City and for the Community
Redevelopment Agency.

SECTION 706. CITY ATTORNEY, DEPUTIES, SPECIAL COUNSEL.

   The City Attorney shall have the authority to appoint deputy city
attorneys to act as such, under the control and direction of the City
Attorney. Compensation for such deputies, if any, shall be set by the
City Council. The City Attorney may, with the approval of the City
Council, engage the services of special counsel to assist him/her in the
performance of said duties.

SECTION 707. CITY CLERK, APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.

   The appointive office of City Clerk of the City is hereby created.
Such office may be combined with that of any other appointive office.
The City Clerk shall be appointed, serve at the pleasure of and be
removed by, and be responsible to the City Council or the City Manager
as may be, from time to time, provided by ordinance.

SECTION 708. CITY TREASURER, APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.

   The appointive office of City Treasurer is hereby created. The duties
of the City Treasurer shall be those imposed by applicable and/or
general law, except as those duties may be modified by ordinance of the
City. The salary, tenure, appointment and removal of the City Treasurer
shall be as prescribed by the City Council.

SECTION 709. BONDS.

   The appointive officers shall post such fidelity bonds as may be
required by the City Council. Such bonds shall be a proper charge upon
the City.

SECTION 710. CONTINUITY.

   No appointive officer shall be removed from office, suspended or
reduced in authority or compensation for ninety (90) days following a
municipal election or change in membership on the City Council.

ARTICLE VIII
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

SECTION 800. MISCELLANEOUS AND SAFETY EMPLOYEES.

   The City Council may designate such other positions for miscellaneous
and safety employees as the Council may, from time to time, determine.
Appointment to, authority over and removal from such positions shall be
by the City Manager.

SECTION 801. MERIT SYSTEM, ESTABLISHMENT.

   The City Council, by ordinance, may establish a Merit System for City
employees. Such system may include provisions for the method of
selection of employees, the classification, advancement, suspension,
discharge, termination of such employees, and the consolidation and
elimination of positions. The Merit System shall apply to each office or
position of employment, except:

   (a)   Elective and appointive officers; and

   (b)   Part-time or temporary officers and employees; and

   (c)   Members of boards and commissions.

SECTION 802. RETIREMENT.

   Plenary authority and power is hereby vested in the City and its City
Council to do and perform any act, or exercise any option or authority
granted, permitted or required under the provisions of its present
retirement program, or to switch to any other retirement system with
similar authority.

SECTION 803. COMPENSATION.

   The City Council, by resolution, shall, from time to time, establish
the salaries and/or other forms of compensation for each officer or
employee of the City.

ARTICLE IX
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

SECTION 900. FISCAL YEAR.

   The fiscal year of the City shall begin on the first day of July of
each calendar year and shall end on the thirtieth day of June of the
following year.

SECTION 901. BUDGET - SUBMISSION TO THE CITY COUNCIL.

   Unless otherwise directed by the City Council, at least thirty-five
(35) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the City Manager
shall prepare and submit to the City Council, a proposed annual budget,
covering the expected income and all proposed expenditures of City for
the forthcoming fiscal year. In preparing the budget, the City Manager
shall utilize the most feasible combination of expenditure
classification by funds, organization unit, program, purpose of
activity, and object.

   Not less than ten (10) copies of the proposed budget, and the City
Manager's budget message, shall be on file in the office of the City
Clerk, available for examination by members of the general public. Upon
submission of the budget, the City Council shall select a convenient
date for the conduct of a public hearing upon the adoption of such
budget. Notice shall be given of such public hearing in such manner as
the City Council deems appropriate to give complete and adequate notice
thereof to residents of the City. At the time of such public hearing,
the City Council shall consider evidence presented by any interested
person concerning any or all of the items as contained in the proposed
budget. Upon conclusion of the said public hearing, the City Council
shall make such alterations, deletions or additions to the budget, as
proposed, as is in the public interest and, therefore, it shall approve
the budget as revised. Such approval shall take place prior to the last
day of July of the fiscal year to which such budgets relates. Upon its
adoption, by the affirmative votes of at least three (3) members of the
City Council, the budget shall be in effect for the ensuing fiscal year.
The budget, as approved, shall be filled with the City Clerk and shall
be reproduced and copies made available for the use of the public and of
departments, officers and agencies of the City.

   At any meeting after the adoption of the budget, the City Council may
amend or supplement the budget, by motion, adopted by the affirmative
votes of at least three (3) members of the City Council.

SECTION 902. BUDGET - APPROPRIATIONS.

   From and after the effective date of the budget, if adopted by
ordinance, the several amounts stated therein as proposed expenditures
shall be deemed appropriated to the several departments, offices and
agencies for the respective objects and purposes therein stated. All
appropriations shall lapse at the end of fiscal year to the extent that
they shall have been expended or lawfully encumbered.

SECTION 903. TAX LEVIES.

   The City Council shall have the authority to levy property taxes in
the same time, manner and amount as is now, or hereinafter, authorized
by general law. In addition, the City Council shall have the authority
to levy taxes as permitted for chartered cities in the conduct of
Municipal Affairs.

SECTION 904. IMPOSITION OF OTHER TAXES.

   The City Council may, by ordinance, impose any other tax, in addition
to those specifically referred to in this Charter, if such tax can
lawfully be imposed by a chartered or general law city by virtue of the
Constitution, or by virtue of any general law.

SECTION 905. TAX PROCEDURE.

   The procedure for the assessment, levy and collection of all
municipal taxes and special assessments shall be prescribed by ordinance
of the City Council. In addition, the City Council may create assessment
districts and impose fees as is permitted to a chartered city in the
exercise of Municipal Affairs.

SECTION 906. DEBT.

   The City may incur debts, issue bonds, enter long term leases or
contracts, or otherwise financially obligate itself over one or more
years, in the manner as is authorized by general law. In addition, the
City Council may, by ordinance, exercise such functions as permitted by
chartered cities in the conduct of "Municipal Affairs", including the
building, construction, reconstruction, operation, maintenance and other
expenses for buildings, projects, programs and services, governmental
and proprietary. The City may finance or re-finance the acquisition,
construction, improvement, furnishing, equipping, maintenance, repair,
reconstruction or rehabilitation of public facilities, hospitals, health
care facilities, airfields, airports, water facilities, sewer
facilities, trash disposal facilities, prison facilities and such other
public, residential, industrial, and commercial facilities as the City
Council may determine to be proper, in whole or in part, through the
issuance of bonds or other obligations secured by the revenue of such
facilities, or otherwise, or by means of such other methods of financing
that the City Council determines to be proper.

SECTION 907. CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY.

   Claims for money or damages against the City or any officer or
employee thereof, and civil actions to enforce the same, shall be
presented, filed and acted upon in the time and manner as is prescribed
by the Government Code, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended.

SECTION 908. PAYMENT OF CLAIMS AND DEMANDS.

   The City Council, by ordinance, shall provide for the method and
manner for the approval and payment of claims and demands against the
City.

ARTICLE X
BOARD OF EDUCATION

SECTION 1000. EFFECT OF CHARTER ON SCHOOL DISTRICTS.

   The adoption of this Charter shall not have the effect of creating
any new school district nor shall the adoption of this Charter have any
effect upon the existence, the boundaries of the City, wholly or
partially, as of the effective date of this Charter. Each such present
school district shall continue in existence subject, in all respects, to
the provisions of the Constitution and the laws of the State, as the
same now exist or hereinafter may be amended.

SECTION 1001. APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.

   The manner, time, tenure and terms of office, with reference to the
members of Boards of Education of such school districts, their
qualifications, compensation, removal and the number which shall
constitute any one of such boards shall continue to be as prescribed by
the Constitution and laws of the State, as the same now exists or may
hereinafter be amended.

ARTICLE XI
CITY BOARD AND COMMISSIONS

SECTION 1100. CREATION OF COMMISSIONS.

   The City Council, by ordinance, may create such permanent or
temporary boards or commissions as it finds, in its judgment, are
required to assist in the performance of any municipal function.

SECTION 1101. ENABLING ORDINANCES.

   An ordinance establishing a board or commission shall specify the
following:

   (a)   The number of members comprising such commission of board; and

   (b)   Their term of office; and

   (c)   The powers and duties assigned to the board or commission; and

   (d)   The conditions under which vacancies in membership shall occur
automatically; and

   (e)   The qualifications for appointment to such board or commission;
and

   (f)   Such other matters as may be necessary, in the judgment of the
Council, to enable the commission to perform its assigned functions.

SECTION 1102. APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.

   The City Council, in its annual budget, shall include an
appropriation of funds for each board or commission, in such amounts as
it deems adequate for the performance of the functions assigned to such
bodies.

SECTION 1103. APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.

   Members of all commissions and boards of the City shall be appointed
by the City Council and shall serve at the pleasure of said City
Council. Such appointments shall be made by resolution, adopted by the
affirmative votes of not less than three (3) members of the City
Council. Any member of a board or commission may be removed, with or
without cause, at any time, by the affirmative votes of three (3)
members of the City Council.

   Any vacancy on any board or commission, from whatsoever cause
arising, shall be filled by resolution, carried by not less than three
(3) affirmative votes of the City Council. Upon a vacancy occurring
leaving an unexpired portion of a term, any appointment to fill such
vacancy shall be for the unexpired portion of such terms.

SECTION 1104. MEETINGS - CONDUCT OF.

   The meetings and acts of all commissions and boards and members
thereof the City shall be conducted and taken in accordance with the
provisions of the Brown Act. Each board or commission may adopt, by
resolution, rules for the conduct of its meetings, a copy of which shall
be filed with the City Clerk.

SECTION 1105. COMPENSATION - EXPENSES.

   The City Council, by resolution, may provide for reimbursement for
expenses and insurance coverage of board or commission members.

SECTION 1106. SECRETARY - RECORDS.

   The City Manager shall provide the secretarial services for each
board or commission. The City Manager shall ensure the adequate
preparation of the minutes of board or commission meetings and shall
maintain permanent files containing copies of the minutes, as provided
by each such board or commission, and other records relating thereto.

SECTION 1107. EXISTING COMMISSIONS.

   Members of existing boards and commissions holding office as such, as
of the effective date of this Charter, shall continue to hold such
office thereafter until their respective terms shall expire and their
successors shall be appointed and qualified until they have been removed
as set forth herein.

ARTICLE XII
VIOLATION — VALIDITY

SECTION 1200. VIOLATIONS.

   The violation of any provision of this Charter shall be deemed a
misdemeanor and be punishable upon conviction by a fine of not exceeding
Five Hundred and no/100 Dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment for a term
of not exceeding six (6) months, or by such fine and imprisonment.

SECTION 1201. VALIDITY.

   If any provision of this Charter, or the application thereof any
person or circumstance, is held judicially invalid, the remainder of the
Charter, and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances, shall not be affected thereby.

TITLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Chapters:

   1.01   Code Adopted

   1.05   The City Seal and City Logo, and the Use Thereof

   1.10   General Provisions

   1.15   Elections

   1.20   Municipal Code Violations

   1.22   Cost Recovery

   1.25   Disruption of Public Meetings

Chapter 1.01
CODE ADOPTED

Sections:

   1.01.010   Declaration of Purpose

   1.01.020   Establishment of Municipal Code

   1.01.030   Contents of Code

   1.01.040   Other Ordinances not Part of Code

   1.01.050   Outline of Code

   1.01.060   Maintenance of Code

   1.01.070   Interpretation of Code and Other Ordinances

   1.01.080   Effect of Code on Past Actions and Obligations

   1.01.090   Severability

   1.01.100   Territorial Limitation

   1.01.110   Local Signification

   1.01.120   Rules of Construction

   1.01.130   Effect of Headings

   1.01.140   Meaning of “Section” and “Subsection”

   1.01.150   Acts by Deputies

   1.01.160   “Writing”

   1.01.170   Reference to Ordinances: Application to Amendments

   1.01.180   Statute of Limitations

1.01.010 Declaration of Purpose.

The City Council finds that it is desirable and in the public interest
to establish a Municipal Code in order to provide a scheme of
organization for the classification and grouping of ordinances which the
Council may adopt. The Council intends to adopt ordinances of a general
and permanent nature to provide for their placement in accordance with
the scheme of the Code. This will provide the user with a convenient and
logical compilation of the ordinances of the City.

1.01.020 Establishment of Municipal Code.

This Code shall be known as the “City of Adelanto Municipal Code.” It
shall be sufficient to refer to this Code as the City of Adelanto
Municipal Code in any prosecution for the violation of any provision of
this Code. It shall also be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding
to, amending, correcting or repealing provisions of this Code as an
addition or amendment to, or a repeal of, the City of Adelanto Municipal
Code, or a portion thereof.

1.01.030 Contents of Code.

The City of Adelanto Municipal Code shall consist of all ordinances
adopted by the City Council which are of a general and permanent nature.
An ordinance relating to any of the following subject matters is not
considered an ordinance of a general and permanent nature and need not
be included within the Municipal Code:

   The naming of streets or roads;

   Granting, altering or withdrawing franchises;

   Levying real property tax;

   Calling an election;

   Annexation proceedings;

   Interim zoning measure;

   Zoning or rezoning a particular parcel of property;

Such other ordinances of a special or particular subject matter which
the Council considers are not appropriate to a general compilation of
laws of a general and permanent nature.

1.01.040 Other Ordinances not Part of Code.

Other ordinances adopted by the City Council on or before the date of
adoption of this Municipal Code or Title thereof, are not included as
part of the Municipal Code or that Title so adopted; and any future
amendments to said other ordinances will not be included as part of the
Municipal Code unless otherwise expressly stated in said future
amendments.

1.01.050 Outline of Code.

   A.   The ordinances of the City which are of a general and permanent
nature shall be organized and grouped according to subject matter.

   B.   Ordinances which are adopted from time to time shall be
classified and organized under the following scheme of titles:

      1.   General Provisions

      2.   Administration and Personnel

      3.   Revenue and Finance

      4.   (Reserved)

      5.   Business Licensing and Regulations

      6.   (Reserved)

      7.   Animals

      8.   Health and Sanitation

      9.   Peace, Safety and Morals

      10.   Vehicles and Traffic

      11.   (Reserved)

      12.   (Reserved)

      13.   Streets, Sidewalks and Public Utilities

      14.   Buildings and Construction

      15.   (Reserved)

      16.   Subdivisions

      17.   Zoning and Development

1.01.060 Maintenance of Code.

At least three (3) copies of this Code, duly certified by the City
Clerk, shall be maintained on file in the office of the City Clerk as
official copies of this Code. Additional copies of this Code shall be
distributed to the departments of the City as shall be prescribed by the
City Manager.

Duly certified copies of each ordinance making a change in this Code
shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk in books for such
purpose, duly indexed for ready reference.

At least semiannually, the City Clerk shall cause the loose leaf pages
of this Code in which changes have been made to be reproduced, including
a notation as to the ordinance number and the date, pursuant to which
such change is adopted. Such reprinted pages shall be distributed in
order that the loose leaf copies of this Code, prepared for the use and
convenience of the officers and employees of the City and the general
public, may be brought up to date.

1.01.070 Interpretation of Code and Other Ordinances.

The provisions of this Code and all proceedings under it are to be
construed to effect its objects and to promote justice.

All the provisions of this Code and all other City ordinances shall be
interpreted to refer to the appropriate or designated officer or office
of the City, and whether an ordinance, uniform code, statute or other
matter which is adopted by reference refers to any department, officer,
employee, inspection, police or other function, unless the context
requires otherwise, all references shall be to the appropriate or
designated office, officer, department, agency, employee or function of
the City, or to the person or agency performing the function for the
City.

1.01.080 Effect of Code on Past Actions and Obligations.

Neither the adoption of this Code nor the repeal or amendment by this
Code of any ordinance or part or portion of any ordinance previously in
effect in the City or within the territory currently comprising the
City, shall in any manner affect the prosecution for the violation of
any ordinance, which violation was committed prior to the effective date
of this Code, nor be construed as a waiver of any license, fee or
penalty on such effective date due and unpaid under such ordinances, nor
be construed as affecting any of the provisions of such ordinances
relating to the collection of any such license, fee or penalty or the
penal provisions applicable to any violation of such ordinances, nor to
affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit required to be posted,
filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance; and all vested rights and
obligations pertaining to such ordinances shall continue in full force
and effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the repealing
clause of such ordinance or revive any ordinance which has been repealed
thereby.

No action or proceeding commenced before this Code takes effect, and no
right accrued, is affected by the provisions of this Code or by such
repeal, but such rights shall hereafter be exercised according to this
Code.

1.01.090 Severability.

If any Chapter, Section, Subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion
of this Code is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a
separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed this Code, and each Section,
Subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more Sections, Subsections, sentences, clauses or
phrases had been declared invalid or unconstitutional; and if for any
reason the Code should be declared invalid or unconstitutional, then the
original ordinance or ordinances shall be in full force and effect.

1.01.100 Territorial Limitation.

This Code shall refer only to the omission or commission of acts within
the territorial limits of the City of Adelanto and that territory
outside of the City over which the City has jurisdiction or control by
virtue of the Constitution, or any law, or by reason of ownership or
control of property.

1.01.110 Local Signification.

All references in this Code to places, acts, persons or things and all
else in relation to this Code shall be construed to mean that the same
are applicable to this City, whether the City is mentioned in each
particular Section or not. Portions of this Code have been adopted from
or relate to the same subject as is set forth in the San Bernardino
County Code. To the extent that any Section, Subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this Code is in conflict with the San Bernardino
County Code provisions so adopted, the later-adopted portion of this
Code shall control and shall take precedence over the inconsistent
portions of the San Bernardino County Code.

1.01.120 Rules of Construction.

Unless the provisions of this Code otherwise specifically provide or the
context of this Code indicates to the contrary, the general provisions,
rules of construction and definitions set forth in the following
Sections of this Chapter shall govern the construction of this Code. The
provisions of this Code, and all proceedings under it, are to be
construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote justice.

1.01.130 Effect of Headings.

The title, chapter, article, and section headings contained in this Code
shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify, or in any manner affect
the scope, meaning or intent or the provisions of any title, chapter,
article or section of this Code.

1.01.140 Meaning of “Section” and “Subsection.”

“Section” shall mean a section of this Code, unless some other source is
specifically set forth. “Subsection” shall mean a subsection of the
section in which the term occurs, unless some other section is expressly
set forth.

1.01.150 Acts by Deputies.

Whenever a power is granted to, or a duty is imposed upon, a public
officer or employee, the power may be exercised or the duty may be
performed by a deputy or such officer or employee or by a person
otherwise duly authorized pursuant to law or ordinance, unless this Code
expressly provides otherwise.

1.01.160 “Writing.”

“Writing” includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension
by ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or
record is required or authorized by this Code, such notice, report,
statement or record shall be made in writing in the English language,
unless this Code expressly provides otherwise.

1.01.170 References to Ordinances: Application to Amendments.

Whenever any reference in this Code is made to an ordinance, the
reference shall apply to such ordinance of the City, unless this Code
expressly provides otherwise. Whenever any reference is made to any
portion of this Code or to any ordinance of this City, the reference
shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore, now
or hereafter added to this Code.

1.01.180 Statute of Limitations.

When a limitation or period of time prescribed in any existing ordinance
or statute for acquiring a right or barring a remedy, or for any other
purpose, has begun to run before this Code goes into effect, the time
which has already run shall be deemed a part of the time prescribed as
such limitation.

Chapter 1.05
THE CITY SEAL AND CITY LOGO, AND THE USE THEREOF

Sections:

   1.05.010   Declaration of Intent

   1.05.020   Definitions

   1.05.030   Adoption

   1.05.040   Prohibitions

1.05.010 Declaration of Intent.

Prior to the adoption of this Chapter, there was no mechanism by which
the City could prevent unauthorized placement of the City Seal or City
Logo on documents or materials in a manner that could mislead, deceive,
or confuse the viewer that the material bearing the City Seal or City
Logo was generated by the City, or that the City otherwise approves of,
consents to, sponsors, authorizes or endorses the materials or its
contents. In the absence of the adoption of this Chapter, the public
could become confused, deceived or misled by such documents or
materials, which would be detrimental to the public health, safety and
welfare, and the effective operation of the City.

1.05.020 Definitions.

   A.   The term “City Seal” means the official seal of the City of
Adelanto that was adopted by the Adelanto City Council pursuant to
Resolution No. 96-07, adopted on February 13, 1996. The image of the
City Seal is substantially the same as the form shown below:

[]

 

   B.   The term “City Logo” means the official logo of the City of
Adelanto that is displayed on official City documents, notices,
stationery, City uniforms and vehicles, the image of which is
substantially the same as the form of the City Seal.

   C.   The term “document” means any tangible or intangible form of
communication or representation, including, but not limited to, any
writing, as that term is defined in the California Public Records Act.

1.05.030 Adoption.

The form of the City Seal and City Logo, set forth hereinabove, are
hereby adopted as the City Seal and City Logo.

1.05.040 Prohibitions.

   A.   No person shall place the City Seal or City Logo, or any copy,
facsimile, imitation, or replica thereof, on any document or materials
in a manner that could cause a viewer to reasonably believe that the
document or material was generated by the City; that the document or
material bearing the City Seal or City Logo was generated by the City or
that the person or entity responsible for creating the document or
material bearing the City Seal or City Logo was generated by the City;
that the City otherwise approves of, consents to, sponsors, authorizes
or endorses the material or document or its contents; or that the person
or entity generating the material is employed by, an officer of or
otherwise affiliated with the City.

   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or use the City
Seal or the City Logo or any copy, facsimile, imitation or replica
thereof on any written or printed material supporting or opposing any
candidate or candidates for any elective public office or any local or
statewide referendum, initiative or other ballot measure, except upon
the approval of the City Council.

   C.   Any person who violates the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction and shall be subject to penalties pursuant to
Chapter 1.20 of this Code.

   D.   The City Council may, by resolution, adopt a policy for the
official use of the City Seal or City Logo by officers, employees and
agents of the City, which policy may be in addition to the limitations
included in this Chapter.

Chapter 1.10
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sections:

   1.10.010   Definitions

   1.10.020   Construction of Provisions

   1.10.030   Notices - Service

   1.10.040   Notices - Proof of Service

   1.10.050   Hold Harmless Clause for Licenses and Permits

1.10.010 Definitions.

As used in this Code, unless a different meaning is apparent from the
context or is specified elsewhere in the Code:

   A.   “Calendar Year” shall mean from January 1 through December 31 of
any given year.

   B.   “City” shall mean the City of Adelanto.

   C.   “City Manager” shall mean the appointed official of the City who
occupies the position as chief administrative officer of the City or
his/her designee.

   D.   “Council” shall mean the City Council of the City of Adelanto.

   E.   “Councilmember” shall mean a person duly elected to the Council.

   F.   “County” shall mean the County of San Bernardino, California, or
the area within the limits of San Bernardino County, and such territory
outside of San Bernardino County over which the County has jurisdiction
or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory provisions.

   G.   “Fiscal Year” shall mean from July 1 of any given year through
June 30 of the following year.

   H.   “Gender” shall mean the masculine, the feminine and neuter
genders.

   I.   “Goods” shall mean and include wares and merchandise.

   J.   “May” shall be permissive.

   K.   “Month” shall mean a calendar month, unless otherwise expressed.

   L.   “Number” - The singular number shall include the plural, and the
plural number shall include the singular.

   M.   “Oath” shall include affirmation.

   N.   “Official Time Standard” - Wherever certain hours are named in
this Code, they shall mean Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time as may
be in current use in the City.

   O.   “Operate” shall mean and include carrying on, keeping,
conducting or maintaining.

   P.   “Owner,” applied to a building or land, shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant, tenant in common or joint tenant of the
whole or a part of such building or land.

   Q.   “Person” shall include any natural person, firm, company,
corporation, club, trust or similar organization, partnership,
association, public corporation, political subdivision, City (except the
City of Adelanto), the County of San Bernardino, any district in the
County of San Bernardino, the State of California or the United States
of America, or any department or agency or any employee, manager,
officer, agent, lessee or servant of any thereof, unless this Code
expressly provides otherwise.

   R.   “Personal Property” shall include money, goods, chattels, things
in action and evidences of debt.

   S.   “Police,” “Police Chief” or “Chief of Police” shall mean the
agency which performs the appropriate law enforcement function for the
City and the head of the agency or division thereof which at the time
involved has responsibility for performing the police function for, or
within, the City.

   T.   “Property” shall include real and personal property.

   U.   “Quarterly,” where used to designate a period of time, shall
mean the first three (3) calendar months of any given year or any
succeeding period of three (3) calendar months.

   V.   “Real Property” shall include land, tenements and hereditaments.

   W.   “Sale” shall include any sale, exchange, barter or offer for
sale.

   X.   “Shall” shall be mandatory.

   Y.   “State” shall mean the State of California.

   Z.   “Street” shall include all streets, highways, avenues,
boulevards, alleys, courts, places, squares, curbs or other public ways
in the City which have been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to
public use, or such other public property so designated in any law of
the State.

   AA.   “Tenant” or “Occupant” applied to a building or land, shall
include any person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or
land, whether alone or with others.

   BB.   “Tense” - The present tense shall include the past and future
tense, and the future tense shall include the present tense.

Words and phrases not defined in this Code are construed according to
the approved usage of the language, or, when appropriate, by reference
to definitions contained in state or federal law.

1.10.020 Construction of Provisions.

Words and phrases are to be construed according to the context and the
approved usage of language. Technical words and phrases, and such others
as may have acquired a peculiar and specific meaning in the law or are
specifically defined herein, are to be construed in accordance with such
peculiar and specific meaning or definition.

1.10.030 Notices - Service.

Whenever a notice is required to be given, or may be given, under any
provision of this Code or any provision of any code adopted by reference
by this Code or any provision of any ordinance or resolution of the City
not included within this Code, such notice may be given as herein
provided. Unless different or special provisions are otherwise
specifically made in this Code or in some other applicable enactment,
any such notice may be given either by personal delivery thereof to the
person to be notified, or by deposit in the United States mail in a
sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to such person to be
notified, at that person’s last known business address as the same
appears in the public records or other records pertaining to the matters
to which such notice is directed. Service by mail shall be deemed to
have been completed at the time of deposit in the post office or in the
official receptacle thereof.

1.10.040 Notices - Proof of Service.

Proof of giving any notice may be made by the certificate of any officer
or employee of this City or by the affidavit or declaration under
penalty of perjury of any person over the age of eighteen (18) years,
which shows service in conformity with this Code or other provisions of
law applicable to the subject matter concerned.

1.10.050 Hold Harmless Clause for Licenses and Permits.

   A.   Every license, permit, authorization or grant which is issued or
given by the City or any of its officers, agents, employees, departments
or agencies shall be contingent upon and shall be subject to the
following condition:

      The licensee, permittee, authorizee or grantee agrees, guarantees
and promises to save, indemnify and keep harmless the City and all its
officers, agents, employees, departments and agencies against all
liabilities, judgments, costs and expenses which may in any manner or
form accrue against the City or against any of its officers, agents,
employees, departments or agencies in consequence of the use or
occupancy of any sidewalk, street or other public place, or in any
otherwise by virtue thereof, and will in all things strictly comply with
the conditions of the license, permit, authorization or grant, and with
this Code, all ordinances, rules and regulations of the City relating to
the license, permit, authorization or grant.

   B.   Whenever it is administratively proper, the City Clerk and all
officers, agents, employees, departments and agencies of the City shall
print, type or write the condition stated above into every license,
permit, authorization or grant substantially as it appears in this
Section.

Chapter 1.15
ELECTIONS

Sections:

   1.15.010   General Municipal Elections

   1.15.020   Election Candidate Filing Fee

   1.15.030   Regulations and Charges for Filing Candidate Statements

   1.15.040   Term of Office - City Council

   1.15.050   Term of Office - Mayor

1.15.010 General Municipal Elections.

   A.   General Municipal Election. The general municipal election of
the City shall be held on the same day as the statewide general election
(i.e., on the first Tuesday after the first Monday of November in each
even-numbered year). All elections within the City shall be held and
conducted in accordance with the elections laws of the State pertaining
to municipalities as amended from time to time.

   B.   Consolidation of Elections. The intent of this Section is to
reduce the costs of conducting general municipal elections in the City
by permitting the consolidation of the general municipal election with
another election already to be held on the same date and to be conducted
by the San Bernardino County Registrar of Voters. In addition, it is
anticipated that there will be an increase in voter participation in the
general municipal election because of this combination of elections. It
is also anticipated that voter convenience will be served. The City
Clerk shall request the County Clerk to conduct the municipal election
pursuant to the procedures set forth in Elections Code Section 10403 and
specify the services to be rendered.

   C.   Eligibility of Members. A person is eligible to hold office as a
member of the City Council or as elected Mayor, if he/she is an elector
of the City at the time of assuming office and a registered voter at the
time nomination papers are issued.

[Government Code Sections 34882 and 34904.]

1.15.020 Election Candidate Filing Fee.

A filing fee proportionate to the costs of processing a candidate’s
nomination papers, but not exceeding twenty-five dollars ($25.00), is
established for candidate’s nomination papers for elective office at
municipal elections, to be paid upon the filing of the nomination papers
pursuant to the procedures set forth in Elections Code Section 10228.

1.15.030 Regulations and Charges for Filing Candidate Statements.

   A.   Each candidate for elective office may prepare a candidate’s
statement on the form provided by the City Clerk. The candidate’s
statement may include the name, age and occupation of the candidate and
a brief description of no more than two hundred (200) words, together
with the candidate’s education and qualifications expressed by the
candidate himself or herself, in accordance with Elections Code Section
13307. The statement shall not include the party affiliation of the
candidate, nor membership or activity in partisan political
organizations.

   B.   The candidate’s statement shall be filed in the Office of the
City Clerk at the time the candidate’s nomination papers are filed.

   C.   Each candidate filing a statement shall pay in advance to the
City his or her estimated pro rata share of the total cost of printing,
handling, translating and mailing the candidate’s statement filed
pursuant to Elections Code Section 13307, as a condition of having his
or her statement included in the voter’s pamphlet. The City Clerk shall
determine the estimated pro rata cost of filing the candidate’s
statement, which shall be posted with the City Clerk at the time the
candidate’s statement is filed; the written receipt for payment of the
estimated amount shall include a written notice that the estimate is
just an approximation of the actual cost that varies from one election
to another election and may be significantly more or less than the
estimate, depending on the actual number of candidates filing
statements.

   D.   The City Clerk shall bill each candidate for additional actual
expense or refund any excess paid depending on the final actual cost. In
the event of underpayment, the City Clerk shall require the candidate to
pay the balance of the cost incurred; in the event of overpayment, the
City Clerk shall prorate the excess amount among the candidates and
refund the excess amount paid within thirty (30) days of the election.

   E.   The City will provide an exemption from advance payment of the
fee for the candidate’s statement, for candidates who establish
indigence in accordance with Elections Code Section 13309. The indigent
candidate shall be responsible for payment of the pro rata share of the
costs related to printing, translating, handling and mailing of the
candidate’s statement. The City Clerk shall bill and collect from any
indigent candidate his or her actual pro rata share of the cost after
the election.

   F.   Candidates’ statements may be withdrawn, but not changed, during
the period for filing nomination papers, and until 5:00 p.m. the next
working day after the close of the nomination period.

   G.   A written statement of the regulations set forth herein shall be
provided to each candidate or his or her representative at the time he
or she picks up the nomination papers. Each candidate shall be provided
a copy of this Section at the time nomination papers are issued.

1.15.040 Term of Office - City Council.

Members of the City Council shall be elected by the registered qualified
voters of the City, on an at large basis, at general or special
municipal elections held for that purpose.

[Charter, Section 501.]

1.15.050 Term of Office - Mayor.

Commencing with the general municipal election held in 2004, the Mayor
shall be elected for a term of four (4) years.

[Charter, Section 601(a), amended 11/2/04.]

Chapter 1.20
MUNICIPAL CODE VIOLATIONS

Sections:

   1.20.010   General Enforcement Provisions

   1.20.020   General Enforcement Procedures

   1.20.030   Special Enforcement Procedures

   1.20.040   Criminal Enforcement Procedures

   1.20.050   Civil Enforcement Procedures

   1.20.060   Administrative Enforcement Procedures

   1.20.070   Summary Enforcement Procedures

   1.20.080   [Repealed]

   1.20.090   License and Permit Revocation Procedures

1.20.010 General Enforcement Provisions.

   A.   Enforcement of Code. The City Council hereby declares that
violations of the Code are harmful, injurious and threatening to the
public health, safety and welfare. Therefore, it is the intent of the
City Council that the provisions of the Code shall be enforced as
provided in this Chapter or as may otherwise be provided under the Code
or under the laws of the State of California.

      It is the intent of the City Council to use all administrative,
criminal and civil procedures legally available to enforce the
provisions and requirements of this Code, to correct Code violations and
to abate public nuisances arising from violations of the Code.

   B.   Definitions. Unless otherwise specially defined in this Section,
all words, terms and phrases used in this Chapter shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in Section 1.10.010 this Chapter or, if not defined
therein, as otherwise may be defined in the Code. If no special
definition is provided in the Code, then such words, terms and phrases
shall have their common meaning.

   C.   Violations of the Code.

      1.   Misdemeanor. Any responsible person who commits a Code
violation or who causes or permits the occurrence or continuance of a
public nuisance on property which that person owns, leases, possesses or
controls is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per each violation or by imprisonment
not exceeding six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment.

      2.   Infractions.

         a.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection 1.
hereinabove, any offense that may be cited as a misdemeanor may be
reduced by the City to an infraction where the Code violation or public
nuisance does not present an immediate danger, hazard or injury to the
public health or safety or where the responsible party has not
previously been convicted of the same or substantially similar Code
violations or public nuisances within the past five (5) years.

         b.   Any responsible person who commits a Code violation or who
causes or permits the occurrence or continuance of a public nuisance on
property which that person owns, leases, possesses or controls which has
been reduced to an infraction by the City is punishable by a fine not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first violation within a
five (5) year period; by a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars
($200.00) for the second violation of the same provision within the same
five (5) year period; and by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each additional violation of the same provision within the
same five (5) year period.

      3.   Public Nuisance. Each and every violation of the provisions
of this Code and other unlawful conditions are hereby declared to
constitute a separate public nuisance which may be abated by the City
through the enforcement procedures provided for in this Chapter or in
any other manner provided by law for the abatement of public nuisances.

      4.   Aiding and Abetting. Whenever in this Code any act or
omission is made unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing,
permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing the fact of such
act or omission.

   D.   Separate and Continuing Violations.

      1.   Each and every Code violation and public nuisance committed,
continued or permitted by a responsible person is a separate offense
severally punishable or abatable as provided in this Chapter or as may
otherwise be provided for under this Code.

      2.   Each responsible person shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day, or any portion thereof, during which any
Code violation or public nuisance is committed, continued or permitted
by such person and shall be punishable as provided in this Chapter or as
may otherwise be provided for in this Code.

   E.   Procedures are Cumulative. The enforcement procedures authorized
by this Chapter or as may otherwise be provided for in this Code or
under the laws of the State of California are cumulative and not
mutually exclusive. The City may simultaneously commence and pursue any
one or more enforcement procedures against the responsible party for
each Code violation or public nuisance to the fullest extent allowed by
the law provided the City does not receive duplicative payment for any
single Code violation or public nuisance.

   F.   Obligation to Pay Abatement Costs. The approved enforcement and
abatement costs in an enforcement procedure against a responsible person
for a Code violation or public nuisance which results in a conviction,
civil judgment, injunction, abatement order or other administrative
order shall constitute a personal obligation of the responsible person
and may be recovered from the responsible person in said proceeding.

1.20.020 General Enforcement Procedures.

   A.   Enforcement Procedures.

      1.   This Chapter provides for criminal, civil and administrative
enforcement procedures for Code violations and public nuisances. The
enforcement officer is hereby authorized to select and pursue any one or
more of the enforcement procedures for each Code violation or public
nuisance. The enforcement officer is further authorized to pursue the
enforcement procedures provided for in Sections 1.20.030 (Special
Enforcement Provisions) and 1.20.070 (Summary Enforcement Procedures)
where applicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the enforcement officer
is also authorized to pursue any and all other enforcement procedures
provided for by this Code and any procedures or remedies provided for
under the laws of the State of California.

      2.   Except where the special procedures of Section 1.20.030 or
the summary procedures of Section 1.20.070 are applicable, the
enforcement officer shall commence each enforcement procedure by first
issuing the notices required under this Section.

      3.   If, after issuance of the notices provided for in this
Section and the expiration of the correction or abatement period stated
in the notice of public nuisance, the responsible person has failed to
complete the corrections or abatement specified in the notice of public
nuisance, the enforcement officer may proceed with the criminal, civil
and/or administrative procedures provided for in this Chapter with
respect to the noticed Code violation(s) or public nuisance(s).

   B.   Notice to Responsible Person.

      1.   Initial Notice. The enforcement officer shall, upon the
identification of any Code violation or public nuisance which does not
constitute an imminent danger or hazard under Section 1.20.070 of this
Chapter, advise the responsible person in writing of the existence
thereof by means of a notice of violation, a stop work order or a notice
to cease use or occupancy as provided herein.

      2.   Notice of Violation. Unless this Section prescribes the use
of a stop work order or a notice to cease use or occupancy, the
enforcement officer shall issue a notice of violation to the responsible
person describing the Code violation(s) or public nuisance(s) stating a
reasonable period of not less then seven (7) calendar days during which
correction or abatement must occur and setting forth the actions
required to correct the Code violation or abate the public nuisance. The
notice shall also inform the responsible person of his liability for
enforcement costs and any abatement costs incurred by the City in the
enforcement procedure if the Code violation or public nuisance is not
fully corrected within the stated period. The responsible person shall
correct the Code violation or abate the public nuisance within the time
stated in the notice.

      3.   Stop Work Order. Whenever any work is being done without or
in violation of the appropriate permit or license or that is otherwise
contrary to the provisions of the Code, the enforcement officer may
order such work discontinued and the buildings, dwellings or structures,
or portion thereof, vacated by notice issued to the responsible person.
The notice shall describe the Code violation(s) or public nuisance(s),
state a reasonable period of not less then seven (7) calendar days
during which correction or abatement must occur and set forth the
actions required to correct the Code violation or abate the public
nuisance. The notice shall also inform the responsible person of his
liability for enforcement fees and abatement costs incurred by the City
in the enforcement procedure if the Code violation or public nuisance is
not fully corrected within the stated period. When a stop work order is
issued, any and all persons shall forthwith stop such work until the
violations have been corrected; and the City has authorized the
responsible person to proceed with the work.

      4.   Notice to Cease Use or Occupancy. Whenever any building,
dwelling, structure or equipment therein regulated by the Code is being
used or occupied contrary to the provisions of the Code, the enforcement
officer may order such use discontinued and the building, dwelling,
structure or equipment vacated by issuance of a notice to cease use or
occupancy to the responsible person. The notice shall describe the Code
violation(s) or public nuisance(s), state a reasonable period of not
less then seven (7) calendar days by which the use or occupancy of the
building, dwelling, structure or equipment must cease; state a
reasonable period of not less than seven (7) calendar days during which
correction or abatement must occur; and set forth the actions required
to correct the Code violation or abate the public nuisance. The notice
shall also inform the responsible person of his liability for
enforcement fees and abatement costs incurred by the City in the
enforcement procedure if the Code violation or public nuisance is not
fully corrected within the stated period. All persons shall cease use or
occupancy of the building, dwelling, structure or equipment within the
time stated in the notice. The responsible person shall make the
required corrections or complete the abatement within the time stated in
the notice.

   C.   Notice of Public Nuisance. If, upon expiration of the period
stated in the notice of violation, stop work order or notice to cease
use or occupancy, the corrective or abatement work specified in the
notice has not been completed, the enforcement officer shall issue a
notice of public nuisance to the responsible person. The responsible
person shall complete the corrective or abatement work within the time
stated in the notice.

   D.   Issuance of Notices.

      1.   All notices required under this Section shall be issued to
the responsible person in the following manner:

         a.   Except as is provided in Subsection c. hereinbelow, the
enforcement officer shall, with reasonable diligence, attempt to
personally serve the notice on the responsible person in the manner
provided in California Code of Civil Procedure Section 415.10 or 415.20.

         b.   If after reasonable diligence the enforcement officer is
not able to personally serve the notice as provided in Subsection a.
hereinabove, the enforcement officer may issue the notice by completing
both of the following:

            (1)   Posting the notice in a conspicuous place at the real
property, building, dwelling or structure where the Code violation or
public nuisance is alleged to exist; and

            (2)   Mailing a copy of the notice by certified mail,
postage prepaid, to the responsible person at his last known address.

         c.   At the discretion of the enforcement officer, subsequent
notice of public nuisance which relates to the initial Code violation or
public nuisance may be served upon the responsible person by certified
mail, postage prepaid, at his last known address.

      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, the failure
of any responsible person to actually receive any of the notices
provided for under this Section shall not invalidate any enforcement
procedure taken against the responsible person pursuant to this Chapter.

   E.   Right of Entry and Inspection.

      1.   The enforcement officer is hereby authorized to enter upon or
into, in compliance with this Section, any real property, building,
dwelling or structure located within the City and its sphere of
influence for the purpose of investigating the existence of suspected or
reported Code violations and public nuisances.

      2.   The enforcement officer shall only enter upon or into real
property, buildings, dwellings and structures for the purpose of making
an inspection as follows:

         a.   If the enforcement officer has duly obtained an inspection
warrant pertaining to the real property, buildings, dwellings or
structures from a California court of competent jurisdiction; or

         b.   If the enforcement officer is accompanied by a peace
officer who has obtained a search warrant pertaining to the real
property, buildings, dwellings or structures from a California court of
competent jurisdiction; or

         c.   If the enforcement officer is accompanied by a peace
officer without a search warrant but there exists facts that the peace
officer determines fulfill an exemption to the search warrant
requirement under prevailing state or federal law; or

         d.   If the enforcement officer has obtained the permission of
the responsible person or the owner, tenant, or occupant of the real
property, buildings, dwellings or structures to be entered upon or in;
or

         e.   If the enforcement officer is informed of facts reasonably
showing that an emergency exists or that there exists on or in the real
property, buildings, dwellings or structures a condition which is
imminently dangerous, hazardous or injurious to the public health or
safety.

      3.   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit an enforcement officer
from making a visual inspection of any real property, building, dwelling
or structure from the public right-of-way or from any other real
property, building, dwelling or structure for which the enforcement
officer has obtained permission to enter by the owner, tenant or
occupant thereof.

      4.   No person shall hinder or prevent an enforcement officer from
entering, in compliance with this Section, upon or in any and all real
property, buildings, dwellings or structures for the purpose of
conducting any inspection authorized by this Chapter or as may otherwise
be provided for in this Code or the laws of the State of California.

1.20.030 Special Enforcement Procedures.

The City Council has provided that certain Code violations or public
nuisances shall be enforced, corrected or abated in accordance with
special provisions stated in the Code. Where applicable, the enforcement
officer shall first determine whether an alleged Code violation or
public nuisance is governed by such special provisions. In the event
such special provisions apply, the enforcement officer shall proceed in
accordance with any alternative procedures or penalties prescribed
therein. To the extent such special provisions conflict or augment the
enforcement procedures provided for in this Chapter, the special
provisions shall govern.

1.20.040 Criminal Enforcement Procedures.

If an enforcement officer has issued a notice of public nuisance to a
responsible person and the corrective or abatement work specified in the
notice has not been completed within the time stated therein, then the
City may commence a criminal enforcement proceeding against the
responsible person in the California court of competent jurisdiction.

   A.   Initiation of Proceeding. The City may commence a criminal
enforcement proceeding by issuing a criminal citation to the responsible
person for one (1) or more Code violations. Criminal citations shall
only be issued by enforcement officers certified under Penal Code
Section 832 or a peace officer.

   B.   Citations in Lieu of Immediate Arraignment.

      1.   Notice to Appear in Lieu of Arrest. In any case in which a
person is arrested for a violation of any provision of this Code and
does not demand to be taken before a magistrate, such person may, in
lieu of being taken before a magistrate, be issued a written notice to
appear in court and may then be released, all pursuant to and in
accordance with the procedures prescribed by Penal Code Sections 853.6
et seq.

      2.   Issuance of Citations by Designated Officers and Employees.
Officers and employees of the City who have the discretionary duty to
enforce a statute or ordinance may, pursuant to Penal Code Section 836.5
and subject to the provisions of this Section, arrest a person without a
warrant whenever any such officer or employee has reasonable cause to
believe that the person to be arrested has committed an offense in the
officer’s or employee’s presence which he or she has the discretionary
duty to enforce, and to issue a notice to appear, and to release such
person on his or her written promise to appear in court, pursuant to
Penal Code Section 853.6. No officer or employee shall be allowed by his
or her superior to exercise the arrest and citation authority conferred
in this Section unless such officer or employee is within a
classification of City officers and employees designated by the City
Council to exercise such arrest and citation authority as to specified
violations. The City Manager shall establish and cause to be
administered a special enforcement training program designated to
instruct each officer or employee who will exercise such arrest and
citation authority, regarding the provisions of the statutes and
ordinances to be enforced, the evidentiary prerequisites to proper
procedures for making arrests or otherwise prudently exercising such
arrest and citation authority and the legal and practical ramifications
and limitations attendant thereto. Any such officers or employees shall
be appropriately instructed to deposit executed citations or notices
with the Police Department for filing with the court, after review for
legal sufficiency.

   C.   Post Citation Procedures. After the City has initiated a
criminal proceeding against a responsible person, the procedures
followed for release of persons arrested, notice to appear, bail and
penalties for failure to appear shall be consistent with those
procedures prescribed by Chapter 5C of Title 3 of Part 2 of the Penal
Code, commencing with Section 853.5.

   D.   Cost Recovery in Criminal Proceedings.

      1.   The City shall be entitled to reimbursement from each
responsible person upon conviction of a Code violation for its
enforcement costs and any abatement costs in an amount approved by the
court that were incurred by the City related to the Code violation.

      2.   Upon entry of the second and each subsequent criminal
conviction for violation of the same Code Section within a one (1) year
period, finding that the responsible person was guilty of the Code
violation, the court may order the responsible person to pay restitution
to the City equal to three (3) times the amount of the enforcement and
abatement costs incurred by the City related to the Code violation.

      3.   Pursuant to Government Code Section 38773.5.(b), where the
City makes a demand for the recovery of its attorneys’ fees at the
initiation of a criminal action that was commenced by the City under
this Chapter, the prevailing party in said action shall be entitled to
recovery of that party’s attorneys’ fees in an amount not to exceed the
amount of reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the City in said
action.

1.20.050 Civil Enforcement Procedures.

   A.   Civil Proceedings.

      1.   Commencement of Action. If an enforcement officer has issued
a notice of public nuisance to a responsible person and the corrective
or abatement work specified in the notice has not been completed within
the time stated therein, the City may commence a civil action against
the responsible person in the California court of competent jurisdiction
to prevent, restrain, correct or abate the Code violation or public
nuisance and to recover enforcement and abatement costs, attorney fees,
as well as any other damages and relief to which the City may be
entitled.

      2.   Notice of Pendency. Upon the commencement of a civil action,
the City may record a notice of pendency of action in each case where
the Code violation or public nuisance affects the real property owned,
leased or possessed by the responsible person. In the event the City
elects to record a notice of pendency of action, then such notice shall
comply with the requirements of Health and Safety Code Section 17985.

      3.   Relief Sought. In addition to any other remedies authorized
by law, the City may seek any order or judgment from the court against
the responsible person that is reasonably likely to prevent, restrain,
correct or abate the Code violation or public nuisance or to compensate
the City therefore including, but not limited to, any and all of
following:

         a.   Injunctive relief, including temporary restraining orders,
preliminary injunctions and permanent injunctions to restrain and enjoin
the responsible person from causing, permitting or continuing a public
nuisance, from using or occupying any real property, buildings,
dwellings or structures in violation of the Code, from engaging in
specified actions which are reasonably likely to lead to a violation of
the Code, or from any act or omission which threatens or endangers the
public health, safety or welfare;

         b.   Orders requiring the correction of a Code violation or
abatement of a public nuisance by repairing, rehabilitating, razing,
demolishing or removing any building or structure, or by grading,
clearing, grubbing or cleaning any real property by removing trash and
debris, by ceasing any use or activity that is in violation of the
provisions of this Code or by other appropriate remedy approved by the
court;

         c.   Judgments for recovery of damages incurred by the City,
awards of enforcement costs and any abatement costs, and reasonable
attorneys’ fees incurred by the City related to the Code violation or
public nuisance, and for such other and further relief as the court may
grant.

   B.   Cost Recovery in Civil Actions. Pursuant to the procedures set
forth in Chapter 1.22 of this Code, the City is entitled to seek
recovery of all nuisance abatement costs incurred in connection with any
civil action taken to abate a public nuisance.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 3, 5/10/17.]

1.20.060 Administrative Enforcement Procedures.

   A.   Administrative Proceedings.

      1.   Pursuant to Government Code Section 53069.4, every Code
violation and public nuisance is hereby subject to an administrative
fine, the collection of enforcement and abatement costs and, if
applicable, an abatement order. The provisions of this Chapter shall
govern the imposition, enforcement, collection and administrative review
by the City of such fines, costs and orders.

      2.   The amount of the fine for Code violations or public
nuisances imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall be set forth in a
schedule of fines established by resolution of the City Council. The
schedule of fines shall specify increased fines for repeat violations of
the same Code Section by the same person within five (5) years of the
date of the administrative citation and the amount of any late payment
charges imposed for the payment of a fine after its due date.

      3.   Any person who fails to pay to the City any fine or
enforcement cost imposed pursuant to the provisions of this Section on
or before the date the fine and enforcement cost is due shall also be
liable for the payment of any applicable late payment charges set forth
in the schedule of administrative citation fines.

      4.   Payment of any administrative fine imposed hereunder shall
not excuse or discharge any continuation or repeated occurrence of the
Code violation or public nuisance that is the subject of the
administrative citation.

      5.   If an enforcement officer has issued a notice of public
nuisance to a responsible person and the corrective or abatement work
specified in the notice has not been completed within the time stated
therein, the City may commence an administrative proceeding pursuant to
this Section against the responsible person to impose and collect the
administrative fine and the enforcement costs and any abatement costs
and to issue, if applicable, an abatement order.

   B.   Initiation of Proceeding.

      1.   The City may commence an administrative proceeding by issuing
an administrative citation to the responsible person pertaining to one
(1) or more Code violations or public nuisances. Administrative
citations shall be issued by enforcement officers.

      2.   Each administrative citation shall contain the following
information:

         a.   The date of the Code violation(s) or public nuisance(s);

         b.   The address or a definite description of the location
where the Code violation(s) or public nuisance(s) occurred;

         c.   The Section(s) of the Code allegedly violated and a
description of the Code violation(s) or public nuisance(s);

         d.   The amount of each fine for each of the violation(s);

         e.   A description of the fine payment process, including a
description of the time within which and the place to which the fine
shall be paid;

         f.   An order prohibiting the continuation or repeated
occurrence of the Code violation or public nuisance described in the
administrative citation;

         g.   A description of the administrative citation appeal
process, including the time within which the administrative citation may
be contested and the place from which an appeal may be obtained;

         h.   If applicable, a notice that the City intends to hold a
hearing on the issuance of an abatement order to permit the City to
enter onto the real property or into buildings, dwellings or structures
for the purpose of correcting the Code violation or abating the public
nuisance. The notice shall also state the date, time and place of the
hearing, and advise the responsible person that he has an opportunity to
appear and be heard at this hearing; and

         i.   The name and signature of the citing enforcement officer.

      3.   Each administrative citation shall be accompanied by an
itemized statement and invoice of the enforcement costs incurred to the
date of the citation. The statement shall include a notation that
additional enforcement costs and any abatement costs may be added to the
statement and subsequently invoiced in the event the Code violation or
public nuisance is not forthwith corrected or abated.

      4.   Administrative citations and accompanying enforcement cost
statements shall be served to the responsible person in accordance with
Section 1.20.020.D. of this Chapter. Failure to receive notice does not
affect the validity of the proceedings.

   C.   Proceedings Imposing Fines Only.

      1.   Where the Code violation or public nuisance is not of a
continuing nature or does not lend itself to abatement by the City, then
the City, in its discretion, may pursue the procedure provided in this
Section to impose, enforce and collect the fine and enforcement costs.

      2.   The responsible person cited shall have thirty (30) days from
the date of the administrative citation to pay the amount of the fine
and enforcement costs to the City.

      3.   The responsible person cited may contest issuance of the
citation by paying the full penalty amount listed on the citation, and
by filing a notice of a written appeal with the City Manager or designee
within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the administrative
citation. The appeal request shall contain a specific identification
number of the subject citation; the name and address of the appellant; a
statement in ordinary and concise language of the specific(s) or action
protested and the grounds for contesting the citation, together with all
material facts in support thereof; and the date and signatures of the
appellant.

         Contest hearings shall be conducted by the hearing board, which
may consist of either a hearing officer or, if no hearing officer has
been designated, by the City Manager. The contest hearing shall be held
not less than seven (7) calendar days and not more than ninety (90)
calendar days from the date the notice of appeal is filed, provided,
however, that no hearing to contest an administrative citation shall be
held unless the full penalty amount has been deposited in advance.

      4.   The City shall provide the responsible person with written
notice of the time and place of the contest hearing at least five (5)
calendar days prior to the date of the hearing. If the enforcement
officer submits an additional written report to the hearing board for
consideration at the hearing, a copy of the report shall be served on
the responsible person with the notice of hearing.

      5.   The responsible person’s failure to appear at the contest
hearing shall constitute a forfeiture of any deposited amounts and be
deemed a failure to exhaust the responsible person’s administrative
remedies. In such event, the full amount of the enforcement costs and
fine shall be due immediately; and the administrative citation shall be
deemed a final administrative order for the purpose of Government Code
Section 53069.4. The final administrative order shall be served on the
responsible person by mailing a copy of the order by certified mail
postage prepaid to the responsible person at his last known address.

      6.   The hearing board shall hear, receive and consider testimony
and documentary evidence regarding the alleged Code violation or public
nuisance. The administrative citation and any additional report
submitted by the enforcement officer shall constitute prima facie
evidence of the respective facts contained in those documents. The
contesting responsible person shall be given the opportunity to testify
at the hearing to present evidence concerning the administrative
citation and to cross-examine the citing enforcement officer. The
hearing shall not be subject to the formal rules of evidence or
discovery. The hearing board may continue the hearing and request
additional information from the enforcement officer or the responsible
party prior to issuing a final administrative decision.

      7.   After considering all of the testimony and evidence submitted
at the contest hearing, the hearing board shall issue a written decision
to uphold or cancel the administrative citation, the amount of the fee
and the amount of the enforcement fee and shall list in the decision the
reason for that decision. The written decision of the hearing board
shall be deemed a final administrative order for the purpose of
Government Code Section 53069.4. The final administrative order shall be
served on the responsible person by mailing a copy of the order by
certified mail, postage prepaid, to the responsible person at his last
known address.

      8.   If the hearing board determines after the hearing that the
person charged in the administrative citation was not responsible for
the Code violation or public nuisance or that there was no Code
violation or public nuisance as charged in the administrative citation
or that the amount of the fine or enforcement cost should be reduced,
then the City shall amend the citation to conform with the order to the
hearing board.

      9.   The City may collect any past due administrative citation
fines, enforcement costs and late payment charges by use of all
available legal means, including the use of the lien and special
assessment procedures provided for in Chapter 1.22 of this Code.

   D.   Proceedings Imposing Fines and Abatement Orders.

      1.   Where the Code violation or public nuisance is of a
continuing or persistent nature or presents a significant threat or risk
to the public health, safety and welfare, the City, in its discretion,
may pursue the procedure provided in this Section to impose, enforce and
collect the fines, enforcement and abatement costs and to obtain an
abatement order.

      2.   The administrative citation shall provide the responsible
person with written notice that the City intends to hold a hearing
concerning the imposition of an administrative fine and enforcement and
abatement cost and the granting of an abatement order permitting the
City to enter onto the real property or into the buildings or structures
involved for the purpose of correcting the Code violation or abating the
nuisance. The notice shall specify the date, time and place of the
hearing. The abatement hearing shall be conducted by the hearing board.
The abatement hearing shall be held not less than fifteen (15) days and
not more than sixty (60) days from the date of the administrative
citation.

      3.   At least ten (10) days prior to the abatement hearing, the
City shall provide the responsible person with any written report issued
by the enforcement officer concerning the Code violation or public
nuisance along with the proposed scope of the abatement order.

      4.   The hearing board shall hear, receive and consider testimony
and documentary evidence regarding the alleged Code violation or public
nuisance and the necessary scope of the abatement order. The
administrative citation and any additional report submitted by the
enforcement officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
respective facts contained in those documents. The responsible person
shall be given the opportunity to testify at the hearing, to present
evidence concerning the administrative citation and to cross-examine the
citing enforcement officer. The hearing shall not be subject to the
formal rules of evidence or discovery. The hearing board may continue
the hearing and request additional information from the enforcement
officer or the responsible party prior to issuing a final administrative
decision.

      5.   After considering all of the testimony and evidence submitted
at the abatement hearing, the hearing board shall issue a written order
to uphold or cancel the administrative citation, fine and abatement
order, determine the amount of the enforcement cost and likely abatement
cost and list in the decision the reason for that decision. The hearing
board shall also determine and state the scope of the abatement order.
The written decision of the hearing board shall be deemed a final
administrative order for the purpose of Government Code Section 53069.4.
The final administrative order shall be served on the responsible person
by posting the order in a conspicuous place on the property and by
mailing a copy of the order to the responsible party by certified mail,
postage prepaid, at his last known address.

      6.   If the hearing board determines after the hearing that the
person charged in the administrative citation was not responsible for
the Code violation or public nuisance or that there was no Code
violation or public nuisance as charged in the administrative citation,
then the citation shall be canceled. The hearing board shall also have
the authority to reduce fines or enforcement fees based on the facts
submitted at the hearing.

      7.   If, within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of the
hearing board’s final administrative order to the responsible person,
the Code violation or public nuisance has not been corrected or abated
and the fine and enforcement costs (exclusive of likely abatement costs)
have not been paid to the City, then the City shall be authorized to
enter onto the real property or into the buildings, dwellings or
structures for the purpose of correcting the Code violation or abating
the nuisance. In carrying out the correction or abatement under the
order, the City may take such actions, including, but not limited to,
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, clearing, grubbing, grading,
trenching, building, constructing and other work as may be reasonably
necessary to complete the correction or abatement.

      8.   After the City has acted upon an abatement order, the
enforcement officer shall prepare an itemized statement and invoice of
the actual abatement costs incurred by the City. The statement shall be
mailed to the responsible person by certified mail, postage prepaid, to
his last known address. The responsible person shall be obligated to pay
the abatement costs unless the responsible party files an appeal of the
costs with the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days of the mailing of the
statement. The appeal shall be heard by the hearing board and shall
proceed in the same manner as a contest hearing provided that the
hearing board shall have no authority to consider or rescind the
administrative citation, the abatement order, the fine or enforcement
costs during this appeal.

      9.   The City may collect any past due administrative citation
fines, enforcement costs, and late payment charges by use of all
available legal means, including the use of the lien and special
assessment procedures provided for in Chapter 1.22 of this Code.

   E.   Termination of Proceedings. In the event that the responsible
person corrects the Code violation or abates the public nuisance in
accordance with the administrative citation or abatement order prior to
the expiration of the abatement period set forth therein, then the
proceedings shall be terminated upon the City’s inspection and
confirmation that compliance with the applicable Codes and ordinances
has occurred. Such action shall not affect the right of the City to
claim or recover unpaid enforcement costs as provided for in this
Chapter.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 568, Sections 4, 5, 5/10/17.]

1.20.070 Summary Enforcement Procedures.

   A.   Authority to Abate.

      1.   The summary abatement of Code violations and public nuisances
is hereby authorized, in accordance with the procedures set forth in
this Section, where the enforcement officer, based on the facts then
known, determines that any condition or violation of the Code or other
situation presents an imminent danger or hazard or is imminently
injurious to the public health or safety.

      2.   No person shall remain in or enter any building, dwelling or
structure which has been posted with a notice to vacate or a “Do Not
Enter - Unsafe to Occupy” sign by an enforcement officer, except that
entry may be made to repair, demolish or remove such building, dwelling
or structure with permission of the City Building Official.

   B.   Summary Procedures.

      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter to the
contrary, summary abatement shall be conducted in accordance with the
following procedures:

         a.   The enforcement officer shall document the facts then
known which support his determination that a condition presents an
imminent danger or hazard or is imminently injurious to the public
health or safety.

         b.   The enforcement officer shall attempt to make telephonic
or personal contact with the responsible person. In the event such
contact is made, the enforcement officer shall orally, or in writing,
require the immediate abatement of the imminently dangerous, hazardous
or injurious public nuisance, or order the vacation of the buildings,
dwellings or structures as provided for in Section 1.20.070.C. of this
Chapter, so as to preclude harm to any life or property.

         c.   If the enforcement officer is unable to make contact as
herein above noted or if the responsible person, after notification by
the enforcement officer, does not abate the public nuisance or vacate
the buildings, dwellings or structures within the required period, then
the enforcement officer is authorized to take all actions deemed
reasonably necessary to correct the Code violation or abate the public
nuisance with the use of City forces or its agents or representatives.

         d.   The enforcement officer shall keep an itemized account of
the enforcement and abatement costs incurred by the City in correcting
the Code violation or abating the public nuisance and serve the
appropriate administrative citation and enforcement and abatement cost
statement and invoice on the responsible party pursuant to Section
1.20.060.C. of this Chapter after the correction or abatement is
completed.

      2.   As an alternative to the procedure provided in
Section 1.20.070.B., the City may, at its discretion, utilize the
procedures provided for under the most recent version of the Uniform
Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings.

      3.   The responsible person shall be liable for payment of all
enforcement and abatement costs incurred by the City, pursuant to
Chapter 1.22 of this Code.

   C.   Notice to Vacate.

      1.   In accordance with the procedures provided in
Section 1.20.070.B. of this Chapter, whenever a building, dwelling or
structure is in such condition to make it imminently dangerous,
hazardous or injurious to the life, limb, property or the safety of the
public or of the occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated. Any
building, dwelling or structure whereby improper maintenance has
rendered it unsanitary or unhealthful such that it is unfit for human
habitation, shall be vacated until the unsanitary or unhealthful
conditions are abated. For purposes of this Section, connection to
necessary utilities such as water, electric, gas and sewer (or
functional, approved septic system) shall be required to be considered
sanitary and healthful and to make a building, dwelling or structure fit
for human habitation.

      2.   The enforcement officer shall issue a notice to vacate. The
notice to vacate shall be posted on the building or structure in a
conspicuous manner. Promptly thereafter, the enforcement officer shall
mail a copy of the notice to the responsible person and each tenant if
addresses for same are reasonably obtainable, by certified mail, postage
prepaid. In addition to the notice to vacate, the enforcement officer
shall post on each exit on the building, dwelling or structure that is
required to be vacated, a sign substantially in the following form:

 

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DO NOT ENTER
  UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
  It is a violation of City Ordinance to occupy this building or to remove or deface this notice.
                    
  Building Official      Date
  No person shall remain in or enter any building which has been so posted, except that entry may be made to repair, demolish or remove such building with permission of the City building official.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

      3.   When the cause for the notice to vacate has been abated, the
enforcement officer shall promptly remove any posted notice to vacate or
“Do Not Enter - Unsafe to Occupy” sign, and the responsible person
and/or the tenants and occupants may be allowed to reoccupy the
building, dwelling or structure even if further Code violations or
public nuisances exist provided that none render the building, dwelling
or structure unsanitary, unhealthful or unsafe such that it is unfit for
human habitation or imminently dangerous, hazardous or injurious to the
health and safety of the occupant.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 6, 5/10/17.]

1.20.080 [Repealed].

1.20.090 License and Permit Revocation Procedures.

   A.   Suspension and Revocation of Licenses and Permits.

      1.   Licenses. All licenses issued under the provisions of this
Code shall be in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances of
the City, the State of California and the United States of America.

      2.   Grounds for Suspension or Revocation. Any license or permit
granted through the provisions of this Code may be suspended or revoked
by the department issuing the permit or license if it is determined
either:

         a.   That it was fraudulently obtained or issued in error; or

         b.   That the information provided in the application was
incomplete, incorrect or false in any material respect, or that there
was an omission of a material fact; or

         c.   That the license holder is operating its business in
violation of any statute, ordinance or law; or

         d.   That the revocation is necessary to protect the health,
safety or welfare of the public.

      3.   Appeal Procedure. Prior to any suspension or revocation of
license or permit, the issuing department shall, by certified mail,
postage prepaid, give the license or permit holder ten (10) days notice
of the City’s intent to suspend or revoke such license or permit. Within
ten (10) days of the date of such notice, the license or permit holder
may file a written request with the City Clerk to appear before the
hearing board; and when a hearing is thereafter scheduled by the City
Clerk and notice given to the license or permit holder thereof by
certified, mail postage prepaid, the license holder may appear and show
cause before the hearing board why such license or permit should not be
suspended or revoked. Upon the failure of the license or permit holder
to file a written request for a hearing within said period, or if after
the hearing of the hearing board the hearing board finds good and
sufficient cause for suspension or revocation, the license or permit
shall be suspended or revoked. No refund of any license or permit fee
shall be made following suspension or revocation. Suspension or
revocation of a license or permit shall be effective upon action of the
hearing board as herein described.

      4.   Expiration of Permits. Every permit, unless otherwise
specified, shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the
work authorized by the permit is not commenced within sixty (60) days of
the permit issuance or is not completed within two hundred ten (210)
days of the permit issuance or if a period of ninety (90) days lapses
between inspection approval. Any permittee holding an unexpired permit
may apply in writing for an extension of time not to exceed one hundred
eighty (180) days to complete the permitted work. No permit shall be
extended more than once. Notwithstanding the forgoing, permits for work
with valuation in excess of two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00) may be extended indefinitely as long as work proceeds
continuously and does not stop for any period longer than sixty (60)
days.

Chapter 1.22
COST RECOVERY

Sections:

   1.22.010   Cost Recovery Program

   1.22.020   Definitions

   1.22.030   Nuisance Abatement Cost Recovery

   1.22.040   Attorneys’ Fees and Costs

   1.22.050   Collection Remedies

   1.22.060   Administrative Procedure for Recovering Nuisance Abatement
Costs

   1.22.070   Nuisance Abatement Costs Hearing

   1.22.080   Service

   1.22.090   Nuisance Abatement Lien

   1.22.100   Special Assessment

1.22.010 Cost Recovery Program.

This Chapter is intended to create a comprehensive cost recovery program
as authorized by law for the abatement of public nuisances. The
provisions of this Chapter shall supersede and replace any inconsistent
provisions contained within this Code.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]

1.22.020 Definitions.

   A.   “City Manager’s Designee” shall refer to the City Manager or the
person designated by the City Manager to fulfill the responsibilities
required by this Chapter.

   B.   “Decision” shall refer to the decision of the Hearing Officer at
the conclusion of an administrative hearing held in accordance with this
Chapter.

   C.   “Hearing Officer” shall refer to the neutral and impartial
hearing officer appointed to hold and conduct a hearing in accordance
with this Chapter.

   D.   “Interested Party” or “Interested Parties” shall refer to each
person or entity with a recorded interest in the nuisance property that
is the subject of a nuisance abatement action.

   E.   “Invoice” shall refer to the invoice identifying all nuisance
abatement costs that the city is entitled to recover related to a
nuisance abatement action.

   F.   “Nuisance” and “Public Nuisance” shall include any violations of
this Code, state and federal law, or any other unlawful condition.

   G.   “Nuisance Abatement Action” shall refer to any code enforcement
activity or nuisance abatement activity taken by the City including but
not limited to, any legal action, administrative action, criminal
action, or civil action intended to cause or compel compliance with, or
to enforce any, provisions of this Code, any adopted codes, or any
applicable State or federal laws.

   H.   “Nuisance Abatement Costs” shall refer to all fines, costs,
expenses, and fees, including, but not limited to, all administrative
expenses, administrative fines, civil fines, penalties, staff time,
variable costs, fixed costs, inspection costs, investigation costs,
enforcement costs, abatement costs, litigation fees, litigation costs,
attorneys’ fees and costs, and all other costs and expenses related to,
arising out of, or incurred by the city in connection with any nuisance
abatement action.

   I.   “Nuisance Property” shall refer to the property containing
nuisance conditions that is the subject of a nuisance abatement action.

   J.   “Responsible Party” or “Responsible Parties” shall refer to all
parties responsible for causing, allowing, or maintaining a public
nuisance including, but not limited to, the owners, managers, tenants,
and occupants of the nuisance property upon which a public nuisance was
caused, allowed, or maintained.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]

1.22.030 Nuisance Abatement Cost Recovery.

The City is entitled, and is hereby authorized, to recover all nuisance
abatement costs related to, arising out of, or incurred by the City as a
result of any nuisance abatement action. Each responsible party shall be
jointly and severally liable to the City for all of the City’s nuisance
abatement costs.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]

1.22.040 Attorneys’ Fees and Costs.

The prevailing party in any nuisance abatement action may recover its
reasonable litigation costs and attorneys’ fees from any non-prevailing
party. In no case, however, shall an award of attorneys’ fees to the
prevailing party exceed the amount of reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred by the City. Non-prevailing parties shall be jointly and
severally liable for all attorneys’ fees and costs owed to the
prevailing party. The City shall be deemed the prevailing party in a
nuisance abatement action if a nuisance condition is proven to have
existed on a nuisance property when the City initiated its nuisance
abatement action even if the nuisance condition is cured prior to the
conclusion of the nuisance abatement action.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]

1.22.050 Collection Remedies.

In addition to any other remedy set forth in this Code or provided by
law, the City is authorized to initiate any administrative or civil
action to recover all nuisance abatement costs. Each of the responsible
parties shall be jointly and severally liable for ail nuisance abatement
costs. Unpaid nuisance abatement costs may be recovered as a lien or
special assessment against the nuisance property, as provided in this
Chapter.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]

1.22.060 Administrative Procedure for Recovering Nuisance Abatement
Costs.

   A.   The administrative cost recovery procedures provided in this
section are in addition to all other remedies and cost recovery options
available to the City by law or in equity.

   B.   In accordance with this Chapter, the City shall serve upon each
responsible party and each interested party an invoice identifying all
nuisance abatement costs related to a nuisance abatement action.

   C.   Any responsible party or interested party to whom an invoice has
been issued shall have 45 calendar days from the date of the Invoice to
remit full payment of the Invoice to the City. Payment shall be
submitted to the City as specified in the Invoice. The Invoice shall
further indicate that any unpaid amounts may become a lien and special
assessment against the nuisance property.

   D.   Any responsible party or interested party to whom an invoice has
been issued may, within 15 calendar days from the date of the invoice,
request a hearing on the amount of nuisance abatement costs. A request
for hearing must be made in writing to the City Clerk and contain the
following information:

      1.   The requestor’s full legal name.

      2.   The requestor’s valid mailing address for service.

      3.   The requestor’s phone number.

      4.   The amount of nuisance abatement costs disputed.

      5.   The specific legal and factual grounds for all disputes of
the invoice and nuisance abatement costs.

   E.   The failure of any party to properly and timely request a
hearing shall constitute a waiver of the right to contest the Invoice, a
waiver of the right to a hearing, a failure to exhaust administrative
remedies, and a bar to any further challenge to the City’s invoice and
nuisance abatement costs.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]

1.22.070 Nuisance Abatement Costs Hearing.

   A.   If a hearing is timely and properly requested, the City
Manager’s designee shall appoint a neutral and impartial Hearing Officer
to hold and conduct an administrative hearing in accordance with this
section. The employment, performance evaluation, compensation, and
benefits of the Hearing Officer, if any, shall not be directly or
indirectly conditioned upon the decision of the Hearing Officer.

   B.   The City shall set a hearing to take place before the Hearing
Officer within 60 calendar days from the date that a timely and proper
hearing request is filed, or upon any other date mutually agreed upon by
all parties to the hearing. The City shall provide notice of the date,
time, and location of the hearing to all responsible parties and
interested parties at least 10 calendar days prior to the hearing. The
hearing notice shall specify that failure to appear at the hearing will
constitute a waiver of the right to dispute the invoice and the nuisance
abatement costs, a failure to exhaust administrative remedies, and a bar
to any further challenge to the Invoice or the nuisance abatement costs.

   C.   The Hearing Officer shall hold an informal administrative
hearing. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply to this hearing;
however, there shall be an opportunity to present testimony, documentary
evidence, and other evidence to the Hearing Officer, and to
cross-examine witnesses. Only the specific parties that requested the
hearing, and the City, may participate in the hearing.

   D.   The Hearing Officer may continue the hearing and request
additional information as is reasonable and necessary.

   E.   At the conclusion of the hearing, or within 5 days thereafter,
the Hearing Officer shall issue a decision approving, denying, or
modifying the amount of the nuisance abatement costs that the City is
entitled to recover. The Hearing Officer’s decision shall be final. The
City shall serve notice of the Hearing Officer’s Decision in accordance
with this Chapter.

   F.   All costs of the hearing, including attorneys’ fees, shall be
borne by the non-prevailing parties. If any cost recovery is upheld,
even in part, the City shall be the prevailing party. If cost recovery
is entirely denied, the requesting parties shall be the prevailing
parties.

   G.   If the City is the prevailing party, the Hearing Officer’s
decision shall order the responsible parties to pay the confirmed
nuisance abatement costs to the City within 30 calendar days, and shall
specify that any confirmed nuisance abatement costs not paid within 30
calendar days shall become a lien and special assessment against the
nuisance property.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]

1.22.080 Service.

   A.   All notices and documents required to be served under this
Chapter shall be served by certified mail with return receipt requested.

   B.   Service shall be deemed effective on the date of mailing.

   C.   The failure of a party to receive any notice or document
properly served pursuant to this Chapter shall not affect the validity
of the notice or document, the validity of its service, or the City’s
cost recovery rights.

   D.   Unless otherwise provided in the invoice, all notices and
documents required to be served on the City pursuant to this Chapter
must be personally served or mailed to the City Clerk’s office. The
notice or document must be received by the City within the time
specified for service.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]

1.22.090 Nuisance Abatement Lien.

   A.   If the nuisance abatement costs are upheld, in full or in part,
by the Hearing Officer, or if the time for requesting a hearing has
elapsed and the invoice has not been paid in full within the time
designated by this Chapter, the City may record a lien against the
nuisance property for any unpaid amount.

   B.   Prior to recording a lien, the City shall serve notice of the
lien on all persons or entities with a recorded interest in the nuisance
property. In addition, the owner of record shall be served in accordance
with Government Code section 38773.1.

   C.   In the event that the lien is discharged, released, or
satisfied, then notice of the discharge, release, or satisfaction shall
be recorded on the nuisance properly.

   D.   If the lien is not satisfied within 90 calendar days, the City
may foreclose on the lien.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]

1.22.100 Special Assessment.

   A.   If the nuisance abatement costs are upheld, in full or in part,
by the Hearing Officer, or if the time for requesting a hearing has
elapsed and the invoice has not been paid in full within the time
designated by this Chapter, the City may levy a special assessment
against the nuisance property for any unpaid nuisance abatement costs.
The special assessment may also be recorded against the nuisance
property. The recording shall specify that the nuisance property may be
sold after three years by the tax collector for the unpaid delinquent
assessments.

   B.   Prior to recording, the City shall serve notice of the special
assessment on all persons or entities with a recorded interest in the
nuisance property. In addition, the nuisance property owner shall be
served in accordance with Government Code section 38773.5.

   C.   Notice of the special assessment shall be provided to the tax
collector for the county to add the amount of the special assessment to
the next regular tax bill levied against the nuisance property, and it
shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary
taxes are collected, subject to the same penalties and procedures under
foreclosure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for other taxes.

   D.   After recordation, the special assessment may be foreclosed on
as a lien in the manner and means provided by law.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]

Chapter 1.25
DISRUPTION OF PUBLIC MEETINGS

Sections:

   1.25.010   Findings and Purpose

   1.25.020   General Prohibition

   1.25.030   Definitions

   1.25.040   Procedure

1.25.010 Findings and Purpose.

   A.   The City Council finds that there are instances when members of
the public or groups, disrupt or otherwise violate the limits of
permissible conduct during public meetings, in such a way that it makes
the conduct of the public’s business difficult or impossible, where
decorum is difficult to maintain, and/or where the safety and well being
of the public and/or the Council, Commission, Board or Committee members
may be jeopardized.

   B.   This Chapter is adopted in order to provide a procedure by which
the City Council or City Commissions, Boards or Committees may handle
situations in which individual members of the public or group(s) violate
the limits of permissible conduct during public meetings, and in which
the assistance of law enforcement personnel is required.

1.25.020 General Prohibition.

No person(s) or group(s) shall be allowed to disrupt a public meeting of
the City Council or of any City Commission, Board or Committee.

1.25.030 Definitions.

   A.   “Disrupt a Public Meeting” or “Disruptive Conduct” shall mean
and include addressing the City Council, Commission, Board or Committee
without first being recognized; not addressing the subject before the
Council, Commission, Board or Committee; repetitiously addressing the
same subject; shouting at or threatening the members of the Council,
Commission, Board or Committee in a manner which makes it difficult or
impossible to maintain decorum, or which places the members(s) of the
Council, Board or Commission in fear for their lives or safety or for
the lives or safety of other persons in attendance at the meeting;
failing to relinquish the podium when requested to do so; or otherwise
preventing the Council, Commission, Board or Committee from conducting
its meeting in an orderly manner, as determined by the presiding officer
of the Council, Commission, Board or Committee, or by a majority of the
members thereof.

   B.   “Sergeant at Arms” for a public meeting shall mean the City
Manager or his designee at any meeting of the City Council and the
department head assigned to attend any meeting of a Commission, Board or
Committee, or his designee.

   C.   “Willful Disruption” of a public meeting shall mean persistent
disruptive conduct after a verbal warning has been issued by the officer
presiding over the meeting or conduct which is violent and which
immediately jeopardizes the public health and safety.

1.25.040 Procedure.

   A.   In the event that any meeting of the City Council, or of any
City Commission, Board or Committee, is willfully disrupted by a person
or by a group or groups of persons so as to render the orderly conduct
of the meeting impossible, the officer presiding at the meeting may
recess the meeting or order the person, group or groups of persons
willfully disrupting the meeting to leave the meeting or be removed from
the meeting.

   B.   In the event that an individual or group of individuals violates
the limits of permissible conduct during a public meeting in a manner
determined by the presiding officer to constitute disruptive conduct,
the presiding officer of the meeting may issue a verbal warning. If the
individual or group refuses to adhere to the direction of the presiding
officer, the presiding officer may direct the Sergeant at Arms to summon
a law enforcement deputy and to request that the law enforcement deputy
remove the individual or individuals from the meeting room for
disrupting a public meeting.

   C.   When the presiding officer of a public meeting determines that
unlawful disruption of a public meeting has occurred or is occurring,
and when so requested by the Sergeant at Arms for the meeting, upon his
or her confirmation that such disruption of the public meeting has
occurred or is occurring, the law enforcement deputy should approach the
individual or group of individuals and instruct the person(s) to leave
immediately or be subject to arrest.

   D.   Any person who is requested to leave the meeting and does so
without being physically removed, should not be arrested, so long as
he/she does not return to that meeting and unless other unlawful conduct
is involved. Any person who is requested to leave the meeting and
refuses to do so voluntarily, so that physical force is required to
remove the individual from the meeting, may be placed under arrest and
charged with a violation of Penal Code Section 403 (Disturbing a Public
Meeting) and/or Penal Code Section 148 (Obstructing a Peace Officer).

TITLE 2
ADMINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL

Chapters:

   2.04   City Council

   2.06   City Manager

   2.08   City Clerk

   2.10   City Treasurer

   2.14   City Attorney

   2.16   Code Enforcement and Animal Control Officers

   2.18   Boards, Commissions and Committees - General Provisions

   2.20   Planning Commission

   2.22   Parks and Recreation Commission

   2.24   Board of Building and Safety Appeals

   2.26   Access Appeals Board

   2.28   Disaster Council; Emergency Services Director

   2.30   Health Department

   2.32   Peace Officer Training Standards

   2.34   Administrative Mandamus: Statute of Limitations

   2.36   Holidays Observed by the City

   2.38   Personnel

Chapter 2.04
CITY COUNCIL

Sections:

   2.04.010   Date of Regular Meetings and Study Sessions

   2.04.020   Place of Meetings and Study Sessions

   2.04.030   Improper Conduct at Meetings

   2.04.040   Adoption of Rules of Procedure and Decorum

   2.04.050   Continuity: Term Limitations

   2.04.060   Compensation and Reimbursement of City Council and Mayor

   2.04.070   Commission Appointments

   2.04.080   Appeals to Council

   2.04.090   Notice of Appeal: Time Limit - Contents

   2.04.100   Appeal Hearings: Notices

   2.04.110   Appeals: Hearings

2.04.010 Date of Regular Meetings and Study Sessions.

The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second and
fourth Wednesday of each month, beginning at 11:00 a.m. and concluding
by 2:00 p.m. on the same day. The City Council may, by motion and a
simple majority vote, extend the meeting by thirty (30) minutes,
allowing the meeting to end at 2:30 p.m. The Council may by another
motion and simple majority vote extend the meeting an additional thirty
(30) minutes to 3:00 p.m. Additionally, the City Council may, by a
four-fifths (4/5) vote, extend the meeting beyond 3:00 p.m. When regular
meetings are preceded by a closed session, the closed session shall
begin at 10:00 a.m. and be adjourned by 11:00 a.m., to ensure the prompt
commencement of the open session of the regular meeting. If additional
time is required for the closed session, Council may go back into closed
session after the open session of the City Council meeting. If the day
for holding any regular meeting falls on a holiday, the meeting shall be
held on the next business day, unless otherwise ordered by the City
Council in a prior meeting. Study sessions shall be held as determined
and noticed by the City Council in accordance with legal requirements.

[Ord. No. 655, Section 2, 4/9/25.]

2.04.020 Place of Meetings and Study Sessions.

Meetings shall be held at the City of Adelanto City Hall in the Council
Chambers, unless otherwise ordered by the City Council. The address of
City Hall is 11600 Air Expressway, Adelanto, California, 92301. Meetings
may be held at an alternative location within the City limits as
determined and noticed by the City Council in accordance with legal
requirements. If by reason of fire, flood or other emergency it shall be
unsafe to meet in the City Council Chambers, the meeting may be held for
the duration of the emergency at such other place as is designated by
the Mayor or, if he/she should fail to act, by four (4) members of the
City Council. Special Meetings of the City Council shall be held at the
place designated herein for regular meetings or at such other place as
provided for in the notice and call of the meeting.

[Ord. No. 655, Section 2, 4/9/25.]

2.04.030 Improper Conduct at Meetings.

Any member or other person(s) using profane, vulgar, loud or boisterous
language at any meeting or otherwise interrupting the proceedings, who
refuses to be seated or kept quiet when ordered to do so by the Mayor or
other presiding officer of the Council, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any
member or other person(s) or group(s) who otherwise disrupt a public
meeting is subject to removal and arrest in accordance with Chapter 1.25
of this Code.

2.04.040 Adoption of Rules of Procedure and Decorum.

The City Council shall, by resolution, adopt rules of procedure and
decorum to govern the conduct of its meetings, any of its other
functions and activities, and regulations pertaining thereto.

2.04.050 Continuity: Term Limitations.

Pursuant to City Charter Section 612, the City Council may, by
ordinance, set the number of successive terms or years that a member of
the City Council may serve.

2.04.060 Compensation and Reimbursement of City Council and Mayor.

   A.   Compensation of City Council and Elected Mayor.

      1.   Compensation shall be paid to each member of the City Council
as prescribed in Government Code Sections 36516(a), authorizing the City
Council to provide by ordinance that each member of the City Council
shall receive a prescribed salary, the amount of which shall be based
upon the population of the City.

      2.   Effective the first day of December 2026, each member of the
City Council shall receive as salary the sum of one thousand two hundred
seventy five dollars ($1,275.00) per month, as prescribed in Government
Code Section 36516 for cities over 35,000 up to and including 50,000 in
population; provided, however, that the City Council may increase that
amount in accordance with Government Code Section 36516(a)(4) and (c).

      3.   Following any new and later authorized estimate of population
or census placing the City in a population group other than that set
forth in Subsection 2 of this Section, the salary payable to each member
of the City Council shall be increased or decreased accordingly to equal
the sum prescribed for that population group in said Government Code
Section 36516; provided, however, the salary so increased or decreased
shall become payable only on and after the date upon which one (1) or
more members of the City Council become eligible therefore by virtue or
beginning a new term of office following the next succeeding general
municipal election held in the City.

      4.   In accordance with Government Code Sections 34900 to 34904,
inclusive, the electors have determined that the City Charter shall be
amended to provide for the office of an elected Mayor, commencing with
the 2004 general municipal election. Pursuant to Government Code Section
34903, the Mayor is a member of the City Council and has all of the
powers and duties of a member of the City Council. However, in
accordance with Government Code Section 36516.1, the City Council may
provide the elected Mayor with compensation in addition to that which
he/she receives as a member of the City Council. Such additional
compensation may be provided by an ordinance adopted by the City Council
or by a majority vote of the electors voting on the proposition at a
municipal election.

      5.   Effective the first day of December 2026, and in accordance
with Government Code Section 36516.1, the City's elected Mayor shall
receive a salary in the amount of one thousand six hundred fifty seven
dollars and fifty cents ($1,657.50) per month; provided, however, that
the City Council may increase that amount in accordance with Government
Code Section 36516(a)(4) and (c) and Section 36516.1.

      6.   In accordance with Government Code Section 36516.5, a change
in compensation shall become payable only on and after the date upon
which one (1) or more members of the City Council become eligible
therefore by virtue or beginning a new term of office following the next
succeeding general municipal election held in the City.

   B.   Reimbursement of City Council and Elected Mayor. The
compensation prescribed herein for the elected Mayor and the City
Council is and shall be exclusive of any amounts payable to the elected
Mayor and/or each member of the City Council as reimbursement for actual
and necessary expenses incurred by him or her in the performance of
official duties for the City; and, accordingly, the elected Mayor and
each member of the City Council shall receive reimbursement for such
actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of official
duties for the City pursuant to the provisions of Government Code
Section 36514.5, as amended from time to time. Such reimbursement shall
be as established by policy adopted by the City Council.

   C.   Health and Welfare Benefits for the Mayor and City Council. In
accordance with Government Code Sections 36516(d) and 53200 through
53210, and, in accordance with Government Code Section 53208.5, the City
Council shall receive health and welfare benefits in accordance with the
most generous schedule of benefits being received by any category of
non-safety employees.

[Ord. No. 415, Section 1, 5/12/04; Ord. No. 469, 9/12/07; Ord. No. 492,
11/24/09; Ord. No. 595, Sections 1, 2, 9/26/18; Ord. No. 626, Sections
3, 4, 3/23/22; Ord. No. 656, Section 3, 5/14/25.]

2.04.070 Commission Appointments.

Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Code or by State law, all
City board and commission appointments, except for ex officio members
where applicable, shall be made by the City Council.

2.04.080 Appeals to Council.

   A.   Except when an appeals procedure is otherwise specifically set
forth in this Code, any person excepting to the denial, suspension or
revocation of a permit applied for or held by him pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Code or other City ordinance, or to any
administrative decision made by any official of the City, if the denial,
suspension or revocation of such permit or the determination of such
administrative decision involves the exercise of administrative
discretion or personal judgment exercised pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Code or other City ordinance, may appeal in writing
to the City Council by filing with the City Clerk a written notice of
such appeal.

   B.   No appeal may be taken to any such administrative decision made
by an official of the City pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Chapter unless such decision to appeal has been first taken up with the
department head concerned and with the City Manager, and each such
official has not adjusted the matter to the appellant's satisfaction.

   C.   No right of appeal to the City Council from any administrative
decision made by an official of the City pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Code or other City ordinance shall exist when such
decision is ministerial and thus does not involve the exercise of
administrative discretion or personal judgment exercised pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Code or other City ordinance, whether the
administrative decision involves the denial, suspension or revocation of
a permit or any other administrative decision. Also, there shall be no
such right of appeal with regard to law enforcement activities involving
State law.

2.04.090 Notice of Appeal: Time Limit - Contents.

   A.   Any notice of appeal to the City Council must be filed within
fifteen (15) days of the date of service of notice of the decision or
action pursuant to Section 1.10.030 of this Code or within fifteen (15)
days of the decision or action if no notice of the decision or action is
required to be given.

   B.   The notice of appeal shall set forth (1) the specific action
appealed from, (2) the specific grounds of the appeal and (3) the relief
or action sought from the City Council. In the event any notice of
appeal fails to set forth any information required by this Section, the
City Clerk shall return the same to the appellant with a statement of
the respects in which it is deficient, and the appellant shall
thereafter be allowed five (5) days in which to perfect and refile the
notice of appeal.

   C.   Except in those instances where an appeal is filed by the City
Manager or other public official in pursuance of official duties, the
written notice of appeal from the action of an administrative official
or from an administrative body of the City, as the case may be, shall be
accompanied by a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) or such other fee as may
be required by other enactment or resolution of the City Council.

2.04.100 Appeal Hearings: Notices.

Upon the timely filing of a notice of appeal in proper form, the City
Clerk shall schedule the matter promptly upon the City Council agenda at
a subsequent regular meeting and shall cause notice thereof to be given
the appellant not less than five (5) days prior to such hearing, unless
such notice is waived in writing by the appellant. The City Clerk shall
also cause a copy of the notice of appeal to be transmitted to the
official or body whose action has been appealed from.

2.04.110 Appeals: Hearings.

   A.   The City Council at the hearing may limit participation in the
hearing to the directly interested parties or may allow participation by
the public. Such public participation, however, shall only be
appropriate when the City Council deems the same necessary in the public
interest. If a hearing is ordered open to public participation, notice
thereof shall be given by publishing notice of the same in a newspaper
of general circulation in the City not less than five (5) days prior to
the date of such hearing and by such other means as the City Council
deems necessary.

   B.   At the time of consideration of the appeal by the City Council,
the appellant shall be limited to a presentation on the specific grounds
of appeal and matters set forth in his notice of appeal and shall have
the burden of establishing cause why the action appealed from should be
altered, reversed or modified. The City Council may continue the matter
from time to time; and at the conclusion of its consideration may
affirm, reverse or modify the action appealed from and may take any
action which might have been legally taken in the first instance by the
official or body from whose action the appeal has been taken. In ruling
on the appeal, the findings and action of the Council shall be final and
conclusive in the matter.

Chapter 2.06
CITY MANAGER

Sections:

   2.06.010   Office Created

   2.06.020   Qualifications

   2.06.030   Compensation

   2.06.040   Expense Reimbursement

   2.06.050   Designation of Acting City Manager

   2.06.060   Powers and Duties

   2.06.070   Relations with Council

   2.06.080   Authority to Carry Out Policies

   2.06.090   Attendance at Commission Meetings

   2.06.100   Term and Termination of City Manager's Employment

   2.06.110   Limitation of Delegated Duties

2.06.010 Office Created.

The office of the City Manager is created and established.

2.06.020 Qualifications.

   A.   The City Manager shall be selected on the basis of
administrative and executive ability. He/she shall have at least three
(3) years' experience in responsible executive or administrative
positions and shall possess the ability to plan and execute policies and
programs of the City Council, including budgeting, budgetary control and
the coordination of various City activities.

   B.   Unless otherwise expressly provided by ordinance, resolution or
contract, the City Manager shall devote his/her entire time to the
duties of the office.

   C.   No member of the City Council shall be eligible for appointment
as City Manager until one (1) year has elapsed after such member has
ceased to be a member of the City Council.

2.06.030 Compensation.

The salary of the City Manager shall be fixed by contract or annually by
the City Council, and it shall be paid by the City Treasurer in the same
manner as the salaries of other City employees; and such compensation
shall be a proper charge against such funds of the City as the Council
shall designate.

2.06.040 Expense Reimbursement.

The City Manager shall be reimbursed for all actual and necessary
expenses incurred by him in the performance of his official duties or
incurred when traveling on business of the City under direction of the
City Council.

2.06.050 Designation of Acting City Manager.

The assistant City Manager shall serve as manager pro tempore during any
temporary absence or disability of the City Manager. In the event there
is no assistant City Manager to so act, the City Manager, by a letter
filed with the City Clerk, shall designate a qualified City
administrative officer to exercise the powers and perform the duties of
manager during his/her temporary absence or disability. The City Council
may appoint an acting or interim City Manager.

2.06.060 Powers and Duties.

Under the supervision of the City Council, and subject to the approval,
direction and control thereof, the City Manager shall be responsible for
the performance of such duties and ministerial functions as may be
placed in his/her charge by the City Council, and in connection
therewith, shall report to the City Council from time to time, the
status and enforcement of the City Council's policies, rules and
regulations. The City Manager shall be the administrative head of the
government of the City under the direction and control of the City
Council except as otherwise provided in this Chapter. The City Manager
shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all affairs of
the City, which are under his/her control. In addition to his/her
general powers, and not as a limitation thereon, the City Manager shall
be expected to and shall have the power to:

   A.   Exercise general control and supervision over the affairs of the
City;

   B.   Attend all meetings of the City Council, except when excused
therefrom, and advise and make recommendations to the City Council upon
matters which are brought before it and which are within his/her
administrative authority;

   C.   Subject to rules, regulations, resolutions and ordinances of the
City Council, cause to be prepared and submitted requests for the
creation of new positions and capital outlay items. He/she may request
such information, charts and statistics as may be necessary for his/her
recommendations;

   D.   In accordance with Section 901 of the City Charter, prepare and
submit the proposed annual budget to the City Council for its approval.
Coordinate with all department heads and with the City Treasurer, the
preparation of the annual budget and salary plan. In the performance of
this duty, the City Manager shall obtain from all department heads the
respective departmental budgets, and shall review such budgets including
revenues, expenditures and reserves; and he/she shall submit his/her
recommendation to the City Council each year at least thirty-five (35)
days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year;

   E.   Direct and supervise all the purchasing activities of the City;

   F.   Keep the City Council at all times fully advised as to the
financial condition and needs of the City;

   G.   Review all departmental and agency requests for adjustments and
transfers of budget funds and make recommendations on them to the City
Council;

   H.   Recommend to the City Council adjustments between accounts of
the maintenance and operation and capital outlay appropriations of
individual City departments, provided that such adjustments do not
increase the totals of the amounts budgeted for such categories of
expenditures;

   I.   Exercise general supervision over the City Civil Defense
activity. The City Manager shall be prepared to recommend the
declaration by the City Council of a state of emergency when flood, fire
or other disaster warrants such action;

   J.   Maintain continuous research into and study of administrative
practices and make recommendations to the City Council concerning such
changes or modifications as will improve the efficiency and economy of
City government operations;

   K.   Assist committees in the preparation of rules, regulations,
forms and accounts, and in connection thereto examine, approve and
coordinate development, production and use of general forms by the
various departments and agencies;

   L.   Establish and maintain the City's Records and Retention Program;

   M.   Be responsible for the City's insurance policies and act for and
on behalf of the City in the recovery of any claims against such
policies;

   N.   In cooperation with City departments, prepare and maintain a
Municipal Code;

   O.   Promote proper preparation and dissemination of periodic reports
and informative pamphlets or brochures;

   P.   Recommend to the City Council new or revised statutes which the
City Manager considers to be desirable and merit the endorsement of the
City Council. The City Manager shall also recommend to the City Council
the adoption of new or revised ordinances and resolutions when in
his/her judgment such action will promote improved City services and
operations and are in the public interest;

   Q.   Enforce all laws and ordinances of the City and see that all
franchises, permits, contracts and privileges granted or approved by the
City are faithfully performed and observed;

   R.   Investigate all complaints in relation to matter(s) concerning
the administration of the City;

   S.   Exercise general supervision over all public buildings, public
parks and other public property which are under the control and
jurisdiction of the City Council and not specifically delegated to
another board, commission or officer;

   T.   Establish, when not in conflict with the Personnel Rules and
Regulations, such other procedures as the City Manager deems necessary
for the control and supervision of the affairs of the City and to
implement those rules;

   U.   Consistent with the City's Personnel Rules and Regulations (and
applicable state and federal laws and court decisions) appoint,
transfer, promote, demote, reinstate, lay off, suspend or dismiss City
employees for whom the City Manager is the appointing authority. The
City Manager shall be the appointing authority for every full time, part
time, seasonal or other employee except the position of the City
Attorney. The City Manager shall be the Personnel Officer and with the
approval of the City Council may delegate such duties to his/her
assistants;

   V.   Provide leadership for civic activities designated to benefit
the residents of the City when so authorized by the City Council;

   W.   Supervise and coordinate necessary investigations, studies and
surveys;

   X.   Coordinate the work of other City departments. The City Manager
may require periodic submission of organization charts and departmental
activity reports, and shall inform departments of actions, decisions and
policies of the City council affecting departmental operations;

   Y.   Hire employees who shall not be covered by or entitled to the
benefits of the City's Personnel Rules and Regulations for a definite
term not to exceed six (6) months to perform temporary duties; and

   Z.   Perform such other duties and responsibilities and exercise such
other powers as may be delegated from time to time by ordinance or
resolution or other official action of the City Council.

2.06.070 Relations with Council.

   A.   Consistent with Section 609 of the City Charter, the City
Council and its members shall deal with the administrative services of
the City only through the City Manager, except for the purpose of
inquiry; and neither the City Council nor any member thereof shall give
orders to any subordinates of the City Manager. For purposes hereof,
"inquiry" means any and all communications short of giving orders,
directions or instructions to any member of the administrative staff.
Such members of the administrative staff shall give all information
reasonably requested by any member of the City Council. The City Manager
shall take his orders and instructions from the City Council only when
sitting in a duly convened meeting of the City Council, and no
individual member of the City Council shall give any orders or
instructions to the City Manager.

   B.   The City Council shall instruct the City Manager in matters of
policy. Any action, determination or omission of the City Manager shall
be subject to review by the City Council. The City Council may not
overrule, change or modify any such action, determination or omission
except by the affirmative vote of at least three (3) members of the City
Council.

   C.   Notwithstanding Subsection A above, members of the City Council
may participate in pre-employment interviews of applicants for
appointing authority positions and shall exercise that authority set
forth in the City's Personnel Rules and Regulations.

2.06.080 Authority to Carry Out Policies.

The City Manager may call upon any employee, officer, head of any
department under the control or jurisdiction of the City Manager, or any
appointing authority under the control or jurisdiction of the City
Manager to provide information and assist in carrying out the policies
and orders of the City Council and the duties herein vested in the City
Manager. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney, City Clerk and City
Treasurer to assist the City Manager in administering the affairs of the
City efficiently, economically and harmoniously.

2.06.090 Attendance at Commission Meetings.

The City Manager may attend any and all meetings of the Planning
Commission and any other commission, board or committee created by the
City Council, upon his own volition or upon direction of the City
Council. At such meetings which the City Manager attends, he/she shall
be heard by such commissions, boards or committees as to all matters
upon which he/she wishes to address the members thereof. He/she shall
inform such members as to the status of any matter being considered by
the City Council, and he/she shall cooperate to the fullest extent with
members of all commissions, boards or committees appointed by the City
Council.

2.06.100 Term and Termination of City Manager's Employment.

The City Manager's employment with the City is for no definite term or
period of time, and the City Manager serves at the will and pleasure of
the City Council. The City Manager's employment may be terminated at any
time by a majority vote of the entire City Council without stating
reasons or other cause or justification, without prior notice and
without right of appeal or hearing. Not withstanding the above
provisions of this Section, the City Council may enter into a written
agreement with a City Manager which contains terms of employment which
may differ from the above provision of this Section, which have been
approved by the City Council and signed by a duly authorized
representative of the City Council.

2.06.110 Limitation of Delegated Duties.

No provision of this Chapter is intended to vest in the City Manager any
duties or grant to him/her any authority which is vested by general law
or by other ordinance of the City in the City Council or in any other
City department appointing authority, officer, board, commission or
employee. The City Council hereby expressly retains the sole power of
policy-making and the legislative body of the City, and the duties of
the City Manager are expressly confined to the administrative service of
the City.

Chapter 2.08
CITY CLERK

Sections:

   2.08.010   Office Created - Term

   2.08.020   Bond

   2.08.030   Compensation

   2.08.040   Functions and Duties

2.08.010 Office Created - Term.

The office of the City Clerk is created and established. The City Clerk
shall be appointed and shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council.
The appointive office of the City Clerk may be combined with any other
office or employment in accordance with the job description and
delegation of duties prescribed by enactment of the City Council. The
City Manager may be appointed the additional duty of City Clerk and
shall hold office at the pleasure of the City Council.

2.08.020 Bond.

The City Clerk, upon the entry of his/her duties of office, shall
execute a bond to the City in conformity with bonds of public officers
and in conformity with the provisions of the Government Code Section
36518 relating thereto, in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00).

2.08.030 Compensation.

If the City Council appoints the City Clerk as a separate position, the
City Clerk shall receive such compensation and expense allowance as the
City Council shall from time to time determine, and such compensation
shall be a proper charge against such funds of the City as the City
Council shall designate.

2.08.040 Functions and Duties.

   A.   The City Clerk shall have all of the powers, duties and
responsibilities granted to and imposed upon the office of the City
Clerk by the provisions of Chapter 2 of Part 3 of Division 3 of Title 4
of the Government Code, other general laws of the State, the provisions
of this Code, and the ordinances and resolutions of the City Council;
provided, however, pursuant to the provisions of Government Code Section
40805.5, the financial and accounting duties imposed upon the City Clerk
by Government Code Sections 40802 through 40805 shall be performed by
the Finance Director.

   B.   The principal functions and duties of the City Clerk shall be as
follows:

      1.   Attend all meetings of the City Council and be responsible
for the recording and maintaining of a record of all the actions of the
Council;

      2.   Keep all ordinances and resolutions of the Council in such a
manner that the information contained therein will be readily accessible
and open to the public. The City Clerk shall attach to the original copy
of each ordinance a certificate which shall state the date the ordinance
was adopted and, as to an ordinance requiring publication, that the
ordinance has been published or posted in accordance with law;

      3.   Keep all records of the Council and of the office of the City
Clerk in such manner that the information contained therein will be
readily accessible and open to the public until such time as any of the
records may be destroyed, or reproduced and the original destroyed, in
accordance with State law;

      4.   Serve as the official custodian of all City records;

      5.   Be the custodian of the seal of the City;

      6.   Prepare the Council agendas, in conjunction with and under
the direction of the City Manager;

      7.   Perform the duties prescribed by the Elections Code of the
State in conducting municipal elections;

      8.   Perform the duties imposed upon city clerks by the California
Political Reform Act;

      9.   Be responsible for the publication of all the official
advertising of the City;

      10.   Be responsible for the maintenance and distribution of the
Municipal Code;

      11.   Process all claims filed against the City and its officers,
agents or employees, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 1 of Part 3
of Division 3.6 of Title 1 of the Government Code and Chapter 3.16 of
this Code; and

      12.   Perform such other duties consistent with this Code and City
ordinances as may be delegated by the City Manager in accordance with
the City's Personnel Rules and Regulations.

Chapter 2.10
CITY TREASURER

Sections:

   2.10.010   Office Created - Term

   2.10.020   Bond

   2.10.030   Appointment

   2.10.040   Compensation

   2.10.050   Functions and Duties

   2.10.060   Independent Audit

2.10.010 Office Created - Term.

The office of the City Treasurer is created and established. The City
Treasurer shall be appointed as the chief fiscal officer of the City and
shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council. The appointed office of
City Treasurer may be combined with any other office or employment in
accordance with the job description and delegation of duties prescribed
by enactment of the City Council.

2.10.020 Bond.

The City Treasurer, upon the entry of his/her duties of office, shall
execute a bond to the City in conformity with bonds of public officers
and in conformity with the provisions of the Government Code Section
36518 relating thereto, in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00).

2.10.030 Appointment.

The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the City Council, and shall
serve at and during the pleasure of the City Council. The City Treasurer
shall be qualified by sufficient technical accounting training, skill
and experience to be proficient in the office and shall show evidence of
executive ability.

2.10.040 Compensation.

The City Treasurer shall receive such compensation and expense allowance
as the City Council shall from time to time determine, and such
compensation shall be a proper charge against such funds of the City as
the City Council shall designate.

2.10.050 Functions and Duties.

The principal functions and duties of the City Treasurer shall be as
follows:

   A.   To serve as the chief fiscal officer of the City;

   B.   To assist and advise the administration and the City Council in
all matters pertaining to City finances;

   C.   To perform all financial and accounting duties imposed upon the
City Clerk by Government Code Sections 40802 through 40805;

   D.   To perform such duties as are prescribed by Government Code
Sections 41000 through 41007 and by any other provisions of law
applicable to deposit and investment and safekeeping of public funds of
the City.

   E.   To develop and maintain, in accordance with the State laws and
the City ordinances and the best accepted procedures, adequate financial
records, reports and budgetary control of all receipts, disbursements
and reserves of the City;

   F.   To supervise the keeping of current inventories of all property
of the City departments, offices and agencies;

   G.   To prescribe and develop accounting forms, reports and procedure
in conjunction with administrative needs and requests, and as required
by law;

   H.   To audit all demands in accordance with the provisions of Title
3 of this Code;

   I.   To prepare annually for budget purposes an estimate of revenues
for the City Council and assist the City Manager in compiling the annual
budget in accordance with the prescribed chart of accounts and accepted
procedures;

   J.   To assist the City Council and the City Manager in formulating a
long range financial plan and program;

   K.   To perform such purchasing duties as delegated to the City
Treasurer by the City Council and the City Manager; and

   L.   To perform such other duties related to administrative and
General Services for the municipal government and business operations as
may be delegated to the City Treasurer by the City Council and the City
Manager.

2.10.060 Independent Audit.

The Council shall require annually an independent audit of the accounts
and records of the City Treasurer. This auditor shall be selected by the
City Council and shall be qualified as a certified public accountant.

Chapter 2.14
CITY ATTORNEY

Sections:

   2.14.010   Office Created

   2.14.020   Compensation

   2.14.030   Functions

   2.14.040   Deputies

   2.14.050   Term and Termination of City Attorney's Employment

2.14.010 Office Created.

The office of the City Attorney is hereby established. It shall consist
of the City Attorney and such assistants as may be authorized by the
Council. The City Attorney shall administer the office and be
responsible for the successful performance of its functions. He/she
shall serve under the direct supervision and control of the City Council
as its legal advisor, in accordance with the provisions of the City
Charter and any contract approved by the City Council pursuant to the
terms the City Charter and this Chapter. The City Council may enter into
a contract with a private law firm to perform the services of City
Attorney and, in that connection, may designate a City Attorney and such
Assistant City Attorneys and/or Deputy City Attorneys as are deemed
necessary; and references in this Chapter to City Attorney or the Office
of City Attorney will include any applicable law firm and performance of
said functions by any of its members or employed attorneys.

2.14.020 Compensation.

The City Attorney shall receive such compensation and expense allowance
as the City Council shall from time to time determine or contract for,
and such compensation shall be a proper charge against such funds of the
City as the City Council shall designate.

2.14.030 Functions.

The functions of the office of the City Attorney shall be to:

   A.   Advise the Council and all City officers in all matters of law
pertaining to their offices and relating to City affairs;

   B.   Furnish legal service at all meetings of the Council, except
when excused or disabled, and give advice or opinions on the legality of
all matters under consideration by the Council or by any of the boards
and commissions or officers of the City;

   C.   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, and/or approve all ordinances,
resolutions, agreements, contracts, opinions and other legal instruments
as shall be required for the proper conduct of the business of the City
and approve the form of all contracts and agreements and bonds given to
the City;

   D.   Appear and defend the City in all matters of civil litigation
involving the City and its officers and employees, except those
involving insurance coverage or Workers' Compensation, or as otherwise
provided by contract or direction of the City Council; and prosecute all
violations of City ordinances or delegate such authority to the District
Attorney;

   E.   Perform such other legal duties as may be required by the
Council or as may be necessary to complete the performance of the
foregoing functions.

2.14.040 Deputies.

The City Attorney shall have the authority to appoint Deputy City
Attorneys to act as such, under the control and direction of the City
Attorney. Compensation for such deputies, if any, shall be set by the
City Council. The City Attorney may, with the approval of the City
Council, engage the services of special counsel to assist him/her in the
performance of such duties.

(Charter Section 706.)

2.14.050 Term and Termination of City Attorney's Employment.

The City Attorney's employment with the City is for no definite term or
period of time, and the City Attorney serves at the will and pleasure of
the City Council. The City Attorney's employment may be terminated at
any time by a majority vote of the entire City Council without stating
reasons or other cause or justification, without prior notice, and
without right of appeal or hearing. Notwithstanding the above provisions
of this Section, the City Council may enter into a written agreement
with a City Attorney which contains terms of employment which may differ
from the above provisions of this Section, which have been approved by
the City Council and signed by a duly authorized representative of the
City Council.

Chapter 2.16
CODE ENFORCEMENT AND ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS

Section:

   2.16.010   Code Enforcement and Animal Control Offices Established

2.16.010 Code Enforcement and Animal Control Offices Established.

   A.   There are established the offices of Code Enforcement and Animal
Control, which offices shall respectively provide for code enforcement
and animal control services in the City. All code enforcement and animal
control personnel (excluding clerical and administrative support
personnel) are authorized to issue citations (notices to correct and/or
notices to appear) to any person violating:

      1.   Any ordinance of the City;

      2.   Any uniform code or ordinance adopted by reference by
ordinance of the City; and

      3.   Any standing or parking regulation established by the
California Vehicle Code.

      4.   Animal Control Officers in the City, those City employees
authorized to perform the duties of Animal Control Officers, and any
other City Officers duly designated by the City Council, are not
authorized to carry and use a firearm within the course and scope of
their employment.

   B.   This Chapter does not authorize the arrest or taking into
custody of any person.

   C.   Subsection B., notwithstanding, animal control officers, the
animal control supervisor and animal control technicians who have
completed PC 832 training are specifically authorized to carry and use
gas- or air-operated capture guns, either rifle or pistol, to subdue
animals which threaten public safety, and/or in the interest of animal
welfare.

[Ord. No. 537, Section 2, 2/24/16; Ord. No. 603, Section 2, 7/10/19.]

Chapter 2.18
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sections:

   2.18.010   General Rules Regarding Appointments

   2.18.020   Adoption of Rules of Procedure and Decorum

2.18.010 General Rules Regarding Appointments.

   A.   Unless otherwise provided by law or by ordinance or resolution,
or unless by the very nature of a situation the provisions hereof may
not be applicable, all members of boards, committees or commissions of
the City shall be appointed by the City Council, shall hold their
offices only at the pleasure of the City Councilmember who nominated for
office said board, committee or commission member; and any member of a
board, commission or committee may be removed from office at any time,
with or without cause, by the City Councilmember who nominated said
appointee to office or by a majority vote of the entire City Council,
except in cases where the Mayor or City Council are not the appointing
authority (in which cases such regular appointing authority may exercise
this power of removal). If a member absents himself or herself without
advance permission of the board, commission or committee or of his or
her appointing authority, from three (3) consecutive regular meetings or
twenty-five percent (25%) of the duly scheduled meetings of the board,
committee or commission within any fiscal year, his or her office shall
thereupon become vacant and shall be filled as any other vacancy.

   B.   Unless otherwise provided by law or by ordinance or resolution
of the City Council, all members of any board, committee or commission
of the City appointed by the City Council shall initially, and during
their incumbencies, reside within the boundaries of the City. No such
member shall at or during his incumbency be an employee of the City.

   C.   The resignation of any member of a board, committee or
commission shall be in writing and becomes effective immediately upon
filing with the City Clerk or on the date stated in the written
resignation.

2.18.020 Adoption of Rules of Procedure and Decorum.

Each board, committee or commission of the City shall, by resolution,
adopt rules of procedure and decorum to govern the conduct of its
meetings, any of its other functions and activities and regulations
pertaining thereto. In the absence of such adopted rules of procedure
and decorum, the rules of procedure and decorum adopted by the City
Council and pertaining to City Council proceedings shall apply.

Chapter 2.20
PLANNING COMMISSION

Sections:

   2.20.010   Creation of City Planning Commission

   2.20.020   Meetings - Regulations - Records

   2.20.030   Eligibility and Qualifications

   2.20.040   Term of Office

   2.20.050   Absence from Meeting

   2.20.060   Suspension of Commission

   2.20.070   Compensation

   2.20.080   Functions, Duties and Powers of Commission

   2.20.090   Appeal and Review of Commission Decisions

   2.20.100   Chairman - Vice Chairman

2.20.010 Creation of City Planning Commission.

   A City Planning Commission hereafter referred to as "Commission" is
hereby established and shall consist of five (5) voting members who
shall be appointed by majority vote of the City Council.

   A.   Each member of the City Council shall nominate one (1) voting
member candidate for the Commission.

   B.   When the membership of City Council is less than five (5), the
Mayor shall nominate a Commissioner voting member candidate without
sponsors.

[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.20.020 Meetings - Regulations - Records.

   The Commission shall hold a regular meeting on the first and third
Wednesday of each month at 7:00 p.m., or at such other day and time as
may be provided by resolution, at the Adelanto City Council Chambers or
such other location as may be permitted by law. If, and as needed from
time to time, the Commission may adjourn a regular meeting to a date and
time certain, and on such specified date and time, hold an adjourned
regular meeting. The Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of
business and shall keep a public record of its resolutions, decisions,
findings, and determinations. The City staff person assigned by the City
Manager shall prepare all meeting agendas (printed and posted at least
seventy-two (72) hours before the meeting) and perform as the meeting
secretary which includes note taking and recording the minutes of the
meeting, as required by law. The official minutes of the Planning
Commission meetings shall be filed with the City Clerk.

   A.   The proceedings of all meetings of the commissions shall be
conducted in accordance with Robert's Rules of Order. The Planning
Commission shall be subject to the provisions of the Brown Act, and
Planning Commissioners shall be subject to the conflict of interest
provisions of the Political Reform Act of 1974 and Government Code
Section 1090 et seq.

   B.   Three (3) members of the Commission form a quorum for the
transaction of business. If it is known that a quorum will not be
achieved, the Secretary shall notify all members that the meeting will
be cancelled.

   C.   The Commission Secretary shall submit an information report to
the City Manager whenever a Commission cancels two (2) consecutive
meetings for lack of a quorum.

[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09; Ord. No. 580, Section 2, 9/27/17.]

2.20.030 Eligibility and Qualifications.

To be eligible for appointment as a member of the Commission, the
candidate must meet all of the following requirements:

   A.   Be a resident of the City for at least thirty (30) consecutive
days prior to submitting an application.

   B.   Qualified elector of the City.

   C.   Have no felony convictions.

   D.   Is over eighteen (18) years of age.

   E.   File a written application for appointment.

[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.20.040 Term of Office.

   A.   The term of office for each voting member shall be the same as
the term of office for the Councilmember nominating the Commissioner.

   B.   A member of the Commission shall, after being approved by a
simple majority vote of the City Council, serve at the pleasure of the
City Council. Any member of the Commission may be removed by a simple
majority vote of the City Council.

   C.   A member of the Commission will continue to serve if the
Councilmember nominating him is no longer a member of the Council until
such time as a newly appointed/elected member of the Council has
nominated a replacement Commissioner and this Commissioner has been
declared duly qualified to serve.

[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.20.050 Absence from Meeting.

   A.   The following shall be considered to be grounds for an excused
absence: (1) illness or injury, (2) maternity leave, (3) emergencies,
(4) religious observances, (5) jury duty, and (6) vacation. To be
considered an excused absence, the Commissioner's absence shall be
reported to the Secretary prior to the time set for the meeting.

   B.   If a voting member of the Commission is absent without having
been excused from three (3) regular, adjourned, or special meetings of
the Commission, the office shall automatically become vacant.

   C.   The Secretary for each Commission shall record attendance in the
official minutes of the Planning Commission and indicate if an absence
is excused. If an absence is not excused it shall be deemed to be
non-compliant.

   D.   The Secretary is responsible to notify the City Clerk of a
member's attendance record. Upon notification the City Clerk shall
notify the City Manager for appropriate action.

[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.20.060 Suspension of Commission.

   At such time as Council deems necessary or beneficial, the operation
of the serving Commission may be suspended by resolution of the City
Council approved by a simple majority of the Council. The resolution
shall include findings and be for a period not to exceed six (6) months.
Should the Council deem it necessary this suspension may be extended by
amending the resolution of suspension. During the period of time of a
suspension, the City Council shall assume all of the functions, duties
and powers of the Planning Commission consistent with Section 2.20.080.

[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.20.070 Compensation.

   A.   The Council establishes compensation and a stipend for
advertised meetings attended for up to two (2) meetings per month for
the Planning Commissioners. The compensation shall be determined and
adjusted from time to time by resolution of the City Council. No other
benefits or compensation shall accrue or vest other than that explicitly
granted by the City Council. A Commissioner shall receive no
compensation for a meeting for which the Commissioner has an unexcused
absence.

   B.   This compensation may be adjusted from time to time by
resolution of the Council.

   C.   At any time the Commission is suspended and their action and
responsibility assumed by the Council, the Council shall not be eligible
for the Commission compensation.

   D.   A member arriving more than thirty (30) minutes after the start
of a meeting without previously notifying the Secretary of the
Commission, shall be deemed absent and shall not be eligible to receive
compensation for said meeting.

   E.   Travel and other expenses, where reimbursement is expected, must
have budgetary approval. State law (AB 1234) requires officials seeking
reimbursement to file an expense report, as well as make a written
report on the meeting or conference attended. Travel and expense reports
are available through the City's Finance Department.

[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.20.080 Functions, Duties and Powers of Commission.

In addition to the duties, rights and powers imposed by State law, the
Commission shall perform the duties and has the rights, powers and
privileges provided by ordinances and resolutions of the City Council.

   A.   Council appointments made to a Commission are held in high
regard and an appointed member is expected to attend and participate in
all of the meetings held by the advisory group.

   B.   Attendance to Ethics Training. In order to meet the requirements
of California State Law (AB 1234) all appointed members who are eligible
to receive a stipend for their services are required to receive no less
than two (2) hours of training in general ethics principles and ethics
laws every two (2) years. Newly appointed advisory members should
complete the required ethics training within the first six (6) months of
appointment.

   C.   Notwithstanding any rights, powers and privileges of the
Planning Commission as provided by ordinance or resolutions of the City
Council, the right of the City Council to review any action of the City
Planning Commission is reserved, and would require an appeal to be filed
within ten (10) working days and require two (2) Council Members to
appeal.

   D.   The functions, duties and powers of the Planning Commission
shall be all those functions, duties and powers of a Planning Commission
and Board of Zoning Adjustment as provided in Chapters 3 and 4 of Title
7 commencing with Government Code Section 65100 (the Planning and Zoning
Law), as the same may be hereafter amended.

   E.   Any project subject to discretionary decisions to be made by the
Planning Officer or other Officers or Offices in the Development Code in
which the deciding Officer or Office determines (1) that opposition of
any member of the Development Review Committee to the proposal or any
portion thereof exists, or (2) that a specific written request has been
received requesting a public hearing review of the project in instances
where any person receives notification of a pending matter by provisions
of the Development Code and makes that request, or (3) when in the
opinion of the Planning Director or other Office responsible for the
decision, there has been substantial objection to a proposed project
from members of the public, or (4) where the Planning Officer or other
deciding Officer or Office cannot make a determination that the proposal
will likely be consistent with and not detrimental to the proposed
general plan or any applicable existing general plan or land uses in the
surrounding area, shall be referred to the Planning Commission for its
action.

   F.   Further, the Planning Commission shall review and the City
Council shall act upon all requests for planned residential developments
and all other matters required by City ordinance or other law to be
considered and acted upon, subject to all other applicable provisions of
the City's ordinances.

   G.   The Planning Commission shall also seek, facilitate, and
consider economic development opportunities and housing opportunities
within the City for submittal to the City Council. The Planning
Commission shall act in an advisory role on such matters and work with
City staff to present information pertaining to such opportunities to
the City Council for the City Council's determination in accordance with
all legal requirements pertaining thereto.

   H.   The Planning Commission shall also handle the duties of the
Parks and Recreation Commission as outlined in the City's Municipal Code
during such time periods as directed by the City Council. Planning
Commissioners shall not receive any additional compensation for serving
as the Parks and Recreation Commission. The City Council may act at any
time to reestablish a separate Parks and Recreation Commission.

[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09; Ord. No. 542, Section 2, 9/9/15.]

2.20.090 Appeal and Review of Commission Decisions.

   A.   All actions of the Planning Commission are subject to appeal to
the City Council in the manner set forth in Title 17 of the Code (the
Development Code), and if not otherwise set forth, then by delivery by
the applicant or any other person affected by the decision of a written
notice of appeal, together with any fee required for such appeal, to the
City Clerk within ten (10) working days of final action by Commission.

   B.   The City Council may also appeal decisions by the Planning
Commission. Appeals pursuant to this section must be filed jointly by
any two (2) City Council members. Such appeals must be filed with the
City Clerk within ten (10) working days of the Commission's action. No
fee shall be required when an item is called for review by City Council
members in conformance with the requirements of this section.

   C.   Upon receipt of a timely appeal or of a timely request for
hearing by a Councilmember, the City Clerk shall schedule the matter for
a hearing or public hearing before the City Council, in which case the
decision by the City Council after considering or hearing the matter
shall then be final.

   D.   The fee for appealing a decision of the Planning Commission to
the City Council may be waived by the City Manager or his designee if
the appealing party executes a form prepared by the City Manager,
declaring under penalty of perjury:

      1.   That he or she is receiving benefits pursuant to the
Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and State Supplemental Payment (SSP)
programs (Welfare and Institutions Code Sections 12200-12205.2), the Aid
to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) program (42 United States
Code §§ 601-644), the Food Stamp program (7 United States Code §§
2011-2027) or Welfare and Institutions Code Section 17000; or

      2.   That his or her monthly income is one hundred twenty-five
percent (125%) or less of the current monthly poverty line annually
established by the Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, as amended, and submits a
financial statement setting forth each item.

[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.20.100   Chairman - Vice Chairman.

The Commission shall elect a Chairman and Vice Chairman from its
members.

   A.   The Planning Commission shall annually at its first meeting held
after February 1, choose one (1) of its members as Chairman and one (1)
as Vice Chairman. Vacancy in either such position occurring prior to
February 1 may be filled as in the first instance, and a new Chairman or
Vice Chairman may be chosen at any time by majority vote of all members
of the Commission.

   B.   At such time as the City Council may assume the duties of the
Planning Commission, the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem shall serve as Chairman
and Vice Chairman of the Commission.

[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

Chapter 2.22
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION

Sections:

   2.22.010   Creation of City Parks and Recreation Commission

   2.22.020   Meetings - Regulations - Records

   2.22.030   Eligibility and Qualifications

   2.22.040   Term of Office

   2.22.050   Absence from Meeting

   2.22.060   Suspension of Commission

   2.22.070   Compensation

   2.22.080   Functions, Duties and Powers of Commission

   2.22.090   Commission Roles and Responsibilities

   2.22.100   Chairman - Vice Chairman

2.22.010 Creation of City Parks and Recreation Commission.

A City Parks and Recreation Commission hereafter referred to as
"Commission" is hereby established and shall consist of five (5) voting
members who shall be appointed by majority vote of the City Council.

   A.   Each member of the City Council shall nominate one (1) voting
member candidate for the Commission.

   B.   When the membership of City Council is less than five (5), the
Mayor shall nominate a Commissioner voting member candidate without
sponsors.

[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.22.020 Meetings - Regulations - Records.

The Commission shall hold a regular meeting on the first and third
Tuesday of each month at 6:00 p.m. at the Adelanto City Council Chambers
or such other location as may be permitted by law. If, and as needed
from time to time, the Commission shall adjourn a regular meeting to a
date and time certain, and on such specified date and time hold an
adjourned regular meeting. The Commission shall adopt rules for the
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
decisions, findings, and determinations. The City staff person assigned
by the City Manager shall prepare all meeting agendas (printed and
posted at least seventy-two (72) hours before the meeting) and perform
as the meeting secretary which includes note taking and recording the
minutes of the meeting, as required by law. The official minutes of the
Parks and Recreation Commission meetings shall be filed with the City
Clerk.

   A.   The proceedings of all meetings of the Commissions shall be
conducted in accordance with Robert's Rules of Order. The Parks and
Recreation Commission shall be subject to the provisions of the Brown
Act, and Parks and Recreation Commissioners shall be subject to the
conflict of interest provisions of the Political Reform Act of 1974 and
Government Code Section 1090 et seq.

   B.   Three (3) members of the Commission form a quorum for the
transaction of business. If it is known that a quorum will not be
achieved, the Secretary shall notify all members that the meeting will
be cancelled.

   C.   The Commission Secretary shall submit an information report to
the City Manager whenever a Commission cancels two (2) consecutive
meetings for lack of a quorum.

[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.22.030 Eligibility and Qualifications.

To be eligible for appointment as a member of the Commission, the
candidate must meet all of the following requirements:

   A.   Be a resident of the City for at least thirty (30) consecutive
days prior to submitting an application.

   B.   Qualified elector of the City.

   C.   Have no felony convictions.

   D.   Is over eighteen (18) years of age.

   E.   File a written application for appointment.

[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.22.040 Term of Office.

   A.   The term of office for each voting member shall be the same as
the term of office for the Councilmember nominating the Commissioner.

   B.   A member of the Commission shall, after being approved by a
simple majority vote of the City Council, serve at the pleasure of the
City Council. Any member of the Commission may be removed by a simple
majority vote of the City Council.

   C.   A member of the Commission will continue to serve if the
Councilmember nominating him is no longer a member of the Council until
such time as a newly appointed/elected member of the Council has
nominated a replacement commissioner and this Commissioner has been
declared duly qualified to serve.

[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.22.050 Absence from Meeting.

   A.   The following shall be considered to be grounds for an excused
absence: (1) illness or injury, (2) maternity leave, (3) emergencies,
(4) religious observances, (5) jury duty, and (6) vacation. To be
considered an excused absence, the Commissioner's absence shall be
reported to the Secretary prior to the time set for the meeting.

   B.   If a voting member of the Commission is absent without having
been excused from three (3) regular, adjourned, or special meetings of
the Commission, the office shall automatically become vacant.

   C.   The Secretary for each Commission shall record attendance in the
official minutes of the Parks and Recreation Commission and indicate if
an absence is excused. If an absence is not excused it shall be deemed
to be non-compliant.

   D.   The Secretary is responsible to notify the City Clerk of a
member's attendance record. Upon notification the City Clerk shall
notify the City Manager for appropriate action.

[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.22.060 Suspension of Commission.

At such time as Council deems necessary or beneficial, the operation of
the serving Commission may be suspended by a majority of the Council.
The Council can at their desire suspend the Commission for a period of
time. During the period of time of a suspension, the Planning Commission
shall assume all of the functions, duties and powers of the Parks and
Recreation Commission consistent with Section 2.22.080 below.

[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09; Ord. No. 512, Section 1, 3/28/12.]

2.22.070 Compensation.

   A.   The Council establishes compensation and a stipend for
advertised meetings attended for up to two (2) meetings per month for
the Parks and Recreation Commission. The compensation shall be
determined and adjusted from time to time by resolution of the Council.
No other benefits or compensation shall accrue or vest other than that
explicitly granted by the City Council. A Commissioner shall receive no
compensation for a meeting for which the Commissioner has an unexcused
absence.

   B.   At any time the Commission is suspended and their action and
responsibility assumed by the Council, the Council shall not be eligible
for the Commission compensation.

   C.   A member arriving more than thirty (30) minutes after the start
of a meeting without previously notifying the Secretary of the
Commission shall be deemed absent and shall not be eligible to receive
compensation for said meeting.

   D.   Travel and other expenses, where reimbursement is expected, must
have budgetary approval. State law (AB 1234) requires officials seeking
reimbursement to file an expense report, as well as make a written
report on the meeting or conference attended. Travel and expense reports
are available through the City's Finance Department.

[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.22.080 Functions, Duties and Powers of Commission.

In addition to the duties, rights and powers imposed by State law, the
Commission shall perform the duties and has the rights, powers and
privileges provided by ordinances and resolutions of the City Council.

   A.   Council appointments made to a Commission are held in high
regard and an appointed advisory member is expected to attend and
participate in all of the meetings held by the advisory group.

   B.   Attendance to ethics training. In order to meet the requirements
of California State Law (AB 1234) all appointed advisory members who are
eligible to receive a stipend for their services are required to receive
no less than two (2) hours of training in general ethics principles and
ethics laws every two (2) years. Newly appointed advisory members should
complete the required ethics training within the first six months of
appointment.

   C.   Not withstanding any rights, powers and privileges of the Parks
and Recreation Commission as provided by ordinance or resolutions of the
City Council, the right of the City Council to review any action of the
City Parks and Recreation Commission is reserved and any City
Councilmember may cause Council review of commission action by majority
vote of the City Council.

[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.22.090 Commission Roles and Responsibilities.

A Commission established to analyze, review and assist in implementation
of all matters relating to parks and recreation within the City of
Adelanto. The Commission shall:

   A.   Assist City staff in developing all Parks and Recreation
programs;

   B.   Review proposed programs from the community;

   C.   Assist in developing future sites for parks which will enhance
the lives of the residents of Adelanto; and

   D.   May establish a forum for public input and concerns regarding
parks and recreation and the effects imposed by such suggestions or
changes.

   E.   The Parks and Recreation Commission will be directly accountable
to the City Council and will report monthly to the City Council on any
actions taken by the Commission. The Commission will also provide to the
City Council advice regarding Parks and Recreation issues.

[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

2.22.100 Chairman - Vice Chairman.

The Commission shall elect a Chairman and Vice Chairman from its
members.

   A.   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall annually, at its first
meeting held after February 1, choose one (1) of its members as Chairman
and one (1) as Vice Chairman. Vacancy in either such position occurring
prior to February 1 may be filled as in the first instance, and a new
Chairman or Vice Chairman may be chosen at any time by majority vote of
all members of the Commission.

   B.   At such time as the City Council may assume the duties of the
Parks and Recreation Commission, the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem shall serve
as Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Commission.

[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]

Chapter 2.24
BOARD OF BUILDING AND SAFETY APPEALS

Sections:

   2.24.010   Created

   2.24.012   Term of Office

   2.24.014   Chair - Committees - Staff

   2.24.016   Meetings

   2.24.018   Compensation of Members

   2.24.020   Functions, Powers and Duties

   2.24.022   Rules - Records and Meetings

2.24.010 Created.

There is created a Board of Building and Safety Appeals for the City.
The Board shall consist of five (5) regular members recommended by the
Building Official and subject to approval by the City Council. Those
members recommended by the Building Official and approved by the City
Council should be qualified by experience and training in one (1) or
more areas relating to the construction industry, engineering,
architecture or related matters. The Board shall consist of one (1)
registered civil engineer, one (1) registered architect, one (1)
registered professional engineer, one (1) licensed general contractor
and (1) one licensed specialty contractor. The members of the Board need
not reside in the City.

2.24.012 Term of Office.

Terms of office for regular Board members shall be four (4) years. There
shall be no limit to the number of terms any Board member may serve,
subject to reappointment as herein above prescribed.

2.24.014 Chair - Committees - Staff.

The Chairman of the Board shall be elected by the Board and shall
preside at all meetings of the Board. The Board shall select a Vice
Chairman who acts in the Chairman's absence. The Board shall be
authorized to appoint and fix the membership of such number of standing
and temporary sub-committees as it may find expedient for the
performance of its duties. The Building Official shall be an ex officio
member of the Board and shall act as secretary to the Board and review
any appeal to verify its validity but shall have no vote upon any matter
before the Board.

2.24.016 Meetings.

Meetings of the Board shall be called when an appeal is filed, by the
City Council, by the Building Official or by the Chairman or a majority
of the Board, provided notice has been given to all members at least
twenty-four (24) hours prior to the meeting and as otherwise required by
law. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum. A
majority vote of the quorum, but not less than two (2), shall be
required to pass a motion or other enactment.

2.24.018 Compensation of Members.

No direct compensation shall be paid to Board members; however, members
shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses, including travel
expenses incurred in the discharge of their duties as members of the
Board, authorized by the City Council.

2.24.020 Functions, Powers and Duties.

   A.   The Board of Building and Safety Appeals for the City shall have
the power to hear and act upon appeals filed by an applicant who wishes
to appeal orders, decisions or determinations made by the City Building
and Safety Division relative to the application and interpretation of
the Municipal Code as adopted by the City. Items which are subject to
appeal are those which are not mandated by the Code or State law.

   B.   The Board shall have no authority relative to interpretation of
the administrative provisions of the Code nor shall the Board be
empowered to waive requirements of the Code adopted by the City.

   C.   The Board shall receive and consider suggestions for changes in
Building and Safety policy matters from interested citizens and other
persons interested in the City. Upon review of any suggestion relative
to Building and Safety policy matters, the Board shall refer its
recommendations for changes to the City Council. If no changes are
recommended, then no referral will be made.

   D.   The Board shall have the power to act in other situations as
provided by City ordinance or law and may act as the appeals board for
public nuisances or for appeals of vehicle abatement.

   E.   The functions, powers and duties of the Board of Building and
Safety Appeals shall not be construed as preempting or otherwise
interfering with the function of other commissions or boards or
committees or offices which are empowered or mandated by law or
ordinance or other regulation to act upon certain matters or make
recommendations to the City Council concerning the repeal of or
amendment to City ordinances or regulations or adoption of new
ordinances or regulations, or otherwise taking such actions as are
mandated, prescribed or permitted by law.

   F.   Appeals.

      1.   All Board decisions are appealable to the City Council in
accordance with Section 2.04.080 et seq. of this Code.

      2.   The Building Official shall reserve the right to refer any
decision on appeal to the City Council.

2.24.022 Rules - Records and Meetings.

The Board of Building and Safety Appeals shall keep a public record of
its proceedings, findings and determinations. Minutes of the Board shall
be kept on file with the City's Building and Safety Division.

Chapter 2.26
ACCESS APPEALS BOARD

Sections:

   2.26.010   Created

   2.26.012   Term of Office

   2.26.014   Chair - Committees - Staff

   2.26.016   Meetings

   2.26.018   Compensation of Members

   2.26.020   Functions, Powers and Duties

   2.26.022   Rules - Records and Meetings

2.26.010 Created.

There is created an Access Appeals Board for the City. It shall consist
of five (5) regular members recommended by the City Manager and subject
to approval by the City Council. Pursuant to Health and Safety Code
Section 19957.5, those members recommended by the City Manager and
approved by the City Council shall include two (2) physically disabled
persons, two (2) members experienced in construction, and one (1) public
member.

2.26.012 Term of Office.

Terms of office for regular Board members shall be four (4) years. There
shall be no limit to the number of terms any Board member shall serve,
subject to reappointment as herein above prescribed.

2.26.014 Chairman - Committees - Staff.

The Chairman for the Board shall be elected by the Board and shall
preside at all meetings of the Board. The Board shall select a Vice
Chairman who acts in the Chairman's absence. The Board shall be
authorized to appoint and fix the membership of such number of standing
and temporary sub-committees as it may find expedient for the
performance of its duties. The Building Official shall be an ex officio
member of the Board and shall act as secretary to the Board and review
any appeal to verify its validity, but shall have no vote upon any
matter before the Board.

2.26.016 Meetings.

Meetings of the Board shall be called when a written appeal is filed, by
the Building Official, or by the City Council, or by the Chairman or a
majority of the Board, provided notice has been given to all members at
least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the meeting, and as otherwise
required by law. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a
quorum. A majority vote of the quorum, but not less than two (2), shall
be required to pass a motion or other enactment.

2.26.018 Compensation of Members.

No direct compensation shall be paid to Board members; however, members
shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses, including travel
expenses incurred in the discharge of their duties as members of the
Board, authorized by the City Council.

2.26.020 Functions, Powers and Duties.

   A.   The Access Appeals Board shall have the power to hear and act
upon written appeals filed by any person who wishes to appeal disabled
access orders, decisions or determinations made by the City Building and
Safety Division.

   B.   The Board shall conduct hearings on written appeals and may
approve or disapprove interpretations of the accessibility provisions of
the State of California Health and Safety Code and Title 24 and may
approve or disapprove the enforcement actions taken by the City's
Division of Building and Safety. All such approvals or disapprovals
shall be final and conclusive as to the Division of Building and Safety,
in the absence of fraud or prejudicial abuse of discretion. Items which
are subject to appeal are those which are not mandated by Code or State
or Federal law.

   C.   Ratification of a determination of an unreasonable hardship
exemption from the application of a disabled access requirement shall be
made by the Access Appeals Board whenever reference is made to
California Title 24, Section 110(10)d prior to such determination
becoming effective.

   D.   The Board shall not be empowered to waive disabled access
requirements of the State mandated Codes.

   E.   The Board shall receive and consider suggestions for changes in
Building and Safety disabled access policy matters from interested
citizens and other persons interested in the City. Upon review of any
suggestion relative to Building and Safety disabled access policy
matters, the Board shall refer its recommendations for changes to the
City Council. If no changes are recommended, then no referral will be
made.

   F.   The functions, powers and duties of the Access Appeals Board
shall not be construed as preempting or otherwise interfering with the
function of other commissions or boards or committees or officers which
are empowered or mandated by law or ordinance or other regulation to act
upon certain matters or make recommendations to the City Council
concerning the repeal of or amendment to City ordinances or regulations
or adoption of new ordinances or regulations, or otherwise taking such
actions as are mandated, prescribed or permitted by law.

2.26.022 Rules - Records and Meetings.

The Access Appeals Board shall keep a public record of its proceedings,
findings and determinations. Minutes of the Board shall be kept on file
with the Building and Safety Division.

Chapter 2.28
DISASTER COUNCIL

Sections:

   2.28.010   Purposes

   2.28.012   Definition of Emergency

   2.28.014   Disaster Council Membership

   2.28.016   Disaster Council Powers and Duties

   2.28.018   Director and Assistant Director of Emergency Services

   2.28.020   Powers and Duties of the Director and Assistant Director
of Emergency Services

   2.28.022   Emergency Organization

   2.28.024   Emergency Plan

   2.28.026   Expenditures

   2.28.028   Punishment of Violations

2.28.010 Purposes.

The declared purposes of this Chapter are to provide for the preparation
and carrying out of plans for the protection of persons and property
within the City in the event of an emergency; the direction of the
emergency organization; and the coordination of the emergency functions
of this City with all other public agencies, corporations, organizations
and affected private persons.

2.28.012 Definition of Emergency.

As used in this Chapter, "emergency" shall mean the actual or threatened
existence of conditions of disaster or of extreme peril to the safety of
persons and property within this City caused by such conditions as air
pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot or earthquake, or other
conditions, including conditions resulting from war or imminent threat
of war, but other than conditions resulting from a labor controversy,
which conditions are or are likely to be beyond the control of the
services, personnel, equipment and facilities of this City, requiring
the combined forces of other political subdivision to combat.

2.28.014 Disaster Council Membership.

The Adelanto Disaster Council is hereby created and shall consist of the
following:

   A.   The Mayor, who shall be Chairman.

   B.   The Director of Emergency Services, who shall be Vice Chairman.

   C.   The Assistant Director of Emergency Services.

   D.   Such Chiefs of Emergency Services as are provided for in a
current emergency plan of this City, adopted pursuant to this Chapter.

   E.   Such representatives of civic, business, labor, veterans,
professional or other organizations having an official emergency
responsibility, as may be appointed by the Director with the advice and
consent of the City Council.

2.28.016 Disaster Council Powers and Duties.

It shall be the duty of the Adelanto Disaster Council, and it is hereby
empowered, to develop and recommend for adoption by the City Council,
emergency and mutual aid plans and agreements and such ordinances and
resolutions and rules and regulations as are necessary to implement such
plans and agreements. The Disaster Council shall meet upon call of the
Chairman or, in his absence from the City or inability to call such
meeting, upon call of the Vice Chairman.

2.28.018 Director and Assistant Director of Emergency Services.

   A.   There is hereby created the Office of Director of Emergency
Services. The City Manager shall be the Director of Emergency Services.

   B.   There is hereby created the Office of Assistant Director of
Emergency Services, who shall be appointed by the Director.

2.28.020 Powers and Duties of the Director and Assistant Director of
Emergency Services.

   A.   The Director of Emergency Services is hereby empowered to:

      1.   Request the City Council to proclaim the existence or
threatened existence of a "local emergency" if the City Council is in
session, or to issue such proclamation if the City Council is not in
session. Whenever a local emergency is proclaimed by the Director, the
City Council shall take action to ratify the proclamation within seven
(7) days thereafter or the proclamation shall have no further force or
effect;

      2.   Request the Governor to proclaim a "State of Emergency" when,
in the opinion of the Director, the locally available resources are
inadequate to cope with the emergency;

      3.   Control and direct the effort of the emergency organization
of this City for the accomplishment of the purposes of this Chapter;

      4.   Direct cooperation between and coordination of services and
staff of the emergency organization of this City, and resolve questions
of authority and responsibility that may arise between them;

      5.   Represent this City in all dealings with public or private
agencies on matters pertaining to emergencies as defined herein; and

      6.   In the event of the proclamation of a "local emergency" as
herein provided, the proclamation of a "State of Emergency" by the
Governor or the Director of the State Office of Emergency Services, or
the existence of a "State of War Emergency," the Director is hereby
empowered:

         a.   To make and issue rules and regulations on matters
reasonably related to the protection of life and property as affected by
such emergency; provided, however, such rules and regulations must be
confirmed at the earliest practicable time by the City Council;

         b.   To obtain vital supplies, equipment and such other
properties found lacking and needed for the protection of life and
property and to bind the City for the fair value thereof and, if
required immediately, to commandeer the same for public use;

         c.   To require emergency services of any City officer or
employee and, in the event of the proclamation of a "State of Emergency"
in the County in which this City is located or the existence of a "State
of War Emergency," to command the aid of as many citizens of this
community as he deems necessary in the execution of his duties; such
persons shall be entitled to all privileges, benefits and immunities as
are provided by State law for registered disaster service workers;

         d.   To requisition necessary personnel or material of any City
department or agency; and

         e.   To execute all of his ordinary power as City Manager, all
of the special powers conferred upon him by ordinance or by resolution
or emergency plan pursuant hereto adopted by the City Council, all
powers conferred upon him by any statute, by any agreement approved by
the City Council and by any other lawful authority.

   B.   The Director of Emergency Services shall designate the order of
succession to that office to take effect in the event the Director is
unavailable to attend meetings and otherwise perform his duties during
an emergency. Such order of succession shall be approved by the City
Council.

   C.   The Assistant Director shall, under the supervision of the
Director and with the assistance of emergency service chiefs, develop
emergency plans and manage the emergency programs of this City and shall
have such other powers and duties as may be assigned by the Director.

2.28.022 Emergency Organization.

All officers and employees of this City, together with those volunteer
forces enrolled to aid them during an emergency, and all groups,
organizations and persons who may by agreement or operation of law,
including persons impressed into service under the provisions of Section
2.28.020.A.6.c. of this Chapter, be charged with duties incident to the
protection of life and property in this City during such emergency,
shall constitute the emergency organization of the City.

2.28.024 Emergency Plan.

The Adelanto Disaster Council shall be responsible for the development
of the Adelanto Emergency Plan, which plan shall provide for the
effective mobilization of all of the resources of this City, both public
and private, to meet any condition constituting a "local emergency,"
"State of Emergency" or "State of War Emergency" and shall provide for
the organization, powers and duties, services and staff of the emergency
organization. Such plan shall take effect upon adoption by resolution of
the City Council.

2.28.026 Expenditures.

Any expenditures made in connection with emergency activities, including
mutual aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the direct
protection and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the City.

2.28.028 Punishment of Violations.

It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment for not to exceed six
(6) months, or both, for any person, during an emergency, to:

   A.   Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency
organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued
pursuant to this Chapter or in the performance of any duty imposed upon
him by virtue of this Chapter.

   B.   Do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulation issued
pursuant to this Chapter, if such act is of such a nature as to give or
be likely to give assistance to the enemy or to imperil the lives or
property of inhabitants of this City, or to prevent, hinder or delay the
defense or protection thereof.

   C.   Wear, carry or display, without authority, any means of
identification specified by the emergency agency of the State.

Chapter 2.30
HEALTH DEPARTMENT

Sections:

   2.30.010   Creation of Public Health Department

   2.30.012   Establishment of Health Officer

   2.30.014   Emergencies

   2.30.016   Permits

2.30.010 Creation of Public Health Department.

The San Bernardino County Department of Public Health shall be and shall
hereinafter be referred to as the Public Health Department of the City.

2.30.012 Establishment of Health Officer.

The Health Officer of the San Bernardino County Department of Public
Health shall be and shall hereinafter be referred to as the Health
Officer of the City.

2.30.014 Emergencies.

Should the City Manager determine that an emergency exists respecting
public health and safety, he/she or his/her delegate may give notice or
take such other action as is required by the Health Officer.

2.30.016 Permits.

All permits required pursuant to those provisions of the San Bernardino
County Code relating to public health and safety shall be obtained from
the San Bernardino Department of Public Health, and all fees and costs
so incurred shall be paid to said Department.

Chapter 2.32
PEACE OFFICER TRAINING STANDARDS

Sections:

   2.32.010   Declaration of Intent

   2.32.012   Adherence to State Standards

2.32.010 Declaration of Intent.

The City declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid from the
State under the provisions of Chapter 1, Title 4, Part 4, of the Penal
Code, commencing with Section 13520.

2.32.012 Adherence to State Standards.

Pursuant to Section 13522 of the Chapter 1, Title 4, Part 4 of the Penal
Code, the City while receiving aid from the State pursuant to the said
Chapter 1, will adhere to the standards for recruitment and training
established by the California Commission of Peace Officer Standards and
Training.

Chapter 2.34
ADMINISTRATIVE MANDAMUS: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS

Sections:

   2.34.010   Administrative Decisions - Judicial Review: Time Limits

   2.34.012   Decisions Affected

   2.34.014   Expedited Judicial Review - First Amendment Cases

2.34.010 Administrative Decisions - Judicial Review: Time Limits.

The provisions of Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1094.5 et seq. are
hereby adopted by the City Council and said provisions are hereby made
applicable in the City as further specified in Section 2.30.012 of this
Chapter.

2.34.012 Decisions Affected.

The provisions of this Chapter shall be applicable to "decisions," as
defined by Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6, that are final on and
after the effective date of this Chapter.

2.34.014 Expedited Judicial Review - First Amendment Cases.

The provisions of Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.8 shall be
applicable to any action or proceeding to review the issuance,
revocation, suspension or denial of a permit or other entitlement for
expressive conduct protected by the First Amendment to the United States
Constitution, as defined therein.

Chapter 2.36
HOLIDAYS OBSERVED BY THE CITY

Section:

   2.36.010   Holidays Observed by the City

2.36.010 Holidays Observed by the City.

   A.   Excluding those offices which must remain open for the
continuation of essential public services such as police and fire
protection, the public offices of the City shall be closed on Saturdays,
Sundays and alternating Fridays, and on those holidays designated by
resolution or ordinance of the City Council.

   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, the
City Manager shall be authorized, by administrative regulation or
otherwise, to direct that all or a portion of the public offices of the
City shall remain open for business, on a full or reduced staff basis,
on any of the days or holidays prescribed above, when he/she determines
it to be necessary in the public interest to do so.

Chapter 2.38
PERSONNEL

Sections:

   2.38.010   Statement of Purpose

   2.38.012   Personnel Officer

   2.38.014   Exceptions

   2.38.016   Adoption and Amendment of Rules

   2.38.018   Appointments

   2.38.020   Probationary Period

2.38.010 Statement of Purpose.

The purpose of this Chapter is to establish an equitable and uniform
system for the employment of personnel and for dealing with personnel
matters, and to comply with applicable laws relating to the
administration of the personnel process, consistent with the
requirements of the City Charter.

2.38.012 Personnel Officer.

The City Manager shall be the personnel officer within the scope of his
powers and duties as defined in this Chapter. The personnel officer may
delegate any of the powers and duties conferred upon him as personnel
officer under this Chapter to any other officer or employee of the City
or may recommend that such powers and duties be performed under
contract. The personnel officer shall:

   A.   Administer all the provisions of this Chapter and of the
personnel rules and regulations not specifically reserved to the City
Council;

   B.   Prepare and recommend to the City Council personnel rules and
regulations, and revisions and amendments to such rules and regulations;

   C.   Prepare or cause to be prepared a position classification plan,
including class specifications, and proposed revisions of the plan. The
position classification plan, and any revisions thereof, shall become
effective upon approval by the City Council.

2.38.014 Exceptions.

The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all offices, positions and
employments in the service of the City, except:

   A.   The City Manager;

   B.   Elective officer(s);

   C.   Appointive officers, including the City Clerk and the City
Treasurer;

   D.   Members of appointive boards, commissions and committees;

   E.   Persons engaged under contract to supply expert, professional,
technical or any other services;

   F.   Volunteer personnel, such as police reserves;

   G.   The City Attorney;

   H.   Emergency employees who are hired to meet the immediate
requirements of an emergency condition, such as extraordinary fire,
flood or earthquake which threatens life or property;

   I.   Employees, other than those listed elsewhere in this Section,
who are not regularly employed by the City.

2.38.016 Adoption and Amendment of Rules.

Personnel rules and regulations may be adopted by ordinance or
resolution of the City Council. Amendments and revisions may be
suggested by any interested party and shall be processed as provided in
the Personnel Rules and Regulations.

2.38.018 Appointments.

Appointments to vacant positions shall be made in accordance with the
Personnel Rules and Regulations. Appointments and promotions shall be
based on merit and fitness. Examinations may be used and conducted to
aid in the selection of qualified employees and may consist of
achievement and aptitude tests, written tests, personal interviews,
performance tests, physical agility tests, evaluation of daily work
performance, work samples or any combinations of these or other tests.
The probationary period shall be considered an extension of the
examination process. Physical, medical and psychological tests designed
to measure job related abilities may be given as part of any
examination.

In any examination, the personnel officer may include, in addition to
competitive tests, a qualifying test or tests and set minimum standards
therefor.

2.38.020 Probationary Period.

All regular appointments, including promotional appointments, shall be
for a probationary period of not less than one (1) year of actual
service. During the probationary period, the employment may be rejected
at any time, whether with or without cause, without the right of appeal
or hearing.

TITLE 3
REVENUE AND FINANCE

Chapters:

   3.01   Investment of Moneys and Funds

   3.05   Collection of Debts to the City

   3.10   Purchases

   3.15   Informal Bid Procedures - Uniform Public Construction Cost
Accounting Act

   3.20   Claims and Demands

   3.25   Special Gas Tax Street Improvement Fund

   3.30   Transfer of Tax Functions

   3.35   Real Property Documentary Transfer Tax

   3.40   Transient Occupancy Tax

   3.45   Sales and Use Tax

   3.50   Election by All-Mailed Ballot Procedures for Community
Facilities Districts

   3.55   Fee and Service Charge Revenue/Cost Comparison System

   3.60   Cannabis Excise Tax

Chapter 3.01
INVESTMENT OF MONEYS AND FUNDS

Sections:

   3.01.010   Investment of City Moneys and Deposit of Securities

   3.01.020   Authorized Investments

   3.01.030   Sales of Securities

   3.01.040   City Bonds

   3.01.050   Reports

   3.01.060   Deposits of Securities

   3.01.070   Trust Fund Administration

3.01.010   Investment of City Moneys and Deposit of Securities.

Pursuant to and in accordance with, and to the extent allowed by
Government Code Sections 53607 and 53608, the authority to invest and
reinvest moneys of the City, to sell or exchange securities and to
deposit them and provide for their safekeeping, is delegated to the City
Treasurer.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.01.020   Authorized Investments.

Pursuant to the delegation of authority in Section 3.01.010, the City
Treasurer is authorized to purchase, at their original sale or after
they have been issued, securities which are permissible investments
under any provision of State law relating to the investing of general
City funds, including but not limited to Government Code Sections 53601,
53635 and 53635.5, and the City Charter, as said Sections now read or
may hereafter be amended, from moneys in his custody which are not
required for the immediate necessities of the City and as he may deem
wise and expedient and to sell or exchange for other eligible securities
and reinvest the proceeds of the securities so purchased.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.01.030   Sales of Securities.

From time to time, the City Treasurer shall sell the securities in which
City moneys have been invested pursuant to this Chapter, so that the
proceeds may, as appropriate, be applied to the purchase for which the
original purchase money may have been designated or placed in the City
treasury.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.01.040   City Bonds.

Bonds issued by the City and purchased pursuant to this Chapter may be
canceled either in satisfaction of sinking fund obligations or otherwise
if proper and appropriate, provided, however, that said bonds may be
held and canceled and while so held may be resold.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.01.050   Reports.

The City Treasurer shall make a quarterly report to the City Council of
all investments made pursuant to the authority delegated in this
Chapter.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.01.060   Deposits of Securities.

Pursuant to the delegation of authority in Section 3.01.010, the City
Treasurer is authorized to deposit for safekeeping the securities in
which City moneys have been invested pursuant to this Chapter, in any
institution or depository authorized by the terms of any State law,
including but not limited to Government Code Section 53608 as it now
reads or may hereafter be amended. In accordance with said Section, the
City Treasurer shall take from such institution or depository a receipt
for the securities so deposited and shall not be responsible for such
securities delivered to and receipted for by such institution or
depository until they are withdrawn therefrom by the City Treasurer.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.01.070   Trust Fund Administration.

Any departmental trust fund established by the City Council pursuant to
Government Code Section 36523 shall be administered by the City
Treasurer in accordance with Government Code Sections 36523 and 36524
and any other applicable provisions of law.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 3.05
COLLECTION OF DEBTS TO THE CITY

Section:

   3.05.010   Collection of Debts to the City

3.05.010   Collection of Debts to the City.

The amount of any fee, service charge, utility charge, license or tax of
any nature whatsoever imposed by this Code or by any other resolution,
ordinance, rule, regulation or in any other fashion by the City of
Adelanto shall be deemed a civil debt owing to the City. An action may
be commenced in the name of the City in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the collection of the amount of any such delinquent or
unpaid fee, service charge, utility charge, license or tax, together
with any penalties applicable thereto as prescribed by this Code or any
other enactment. Such action may also be commenced for the collection of
any other amount or debt determined to be due the City on account to any
contractual obligation or on account of any tortuous act or conduct by
any person. The remedy prescribed by this Section shall be cumulative,
and the use of an action to collect such an amount as a debt by civil
action shall not bar the use of any other remedy provided by this Code
or by law for the purpose of enforcing the provisions thereof.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 3.10
PURCHASES

Sections:

   3.10.010   Adoption of Purchasing System

   3.10.020   Purchasing Agent

   3.10.030   Purchasing Regulations

   3.10.040   Exemptions from Centralized Purchasing

   3.10.050   Estimates of Requirements

   3.10.060   Requisitions

   3.10.070   Purchase Orders

   3.10.080   Encumbrance of Funds

   3.10.090   Inspection and Testing

   3.10.100   Bidding

   3.10.110   Formal (Sealed) Bid Procedures

   3.10.120   Notice Inviting Formal Bids

   3.10.130   Published Notice for Formal Bids

   3.10.140   Approved Vendors List

   3.10.150   Bulletin Board Notice

   3.10.160   Bidder’s Security

   3.10.170   Other Formal Bond Requirements

   3.10.180   Formal Bid Opening Procedure

   3.10.190   Rejection of Formal Bids

   3.10.200   Award of Formal Bid Contracts

   3.10.210   Tie Formal Bids

   3.10.212   Credit for Sales and Use Tax

   3.10.215   No Formal Bids

   3.10.230   Open Market or Informal Bid Procedure

   3.10.240   Minimum Number of Informal Bids

   3.10.250   Notice Inviting Informal Bids

   3.10.260   Record of Informal Bids

   3.10.270   Exceptions to Competitive Bidding Requirement

   3.10.280   Regulation Regarding Selection of Contract Services

   3.10.290   Surplus Supplies and Equipment

   3.10.300   Surplus Supplies - Trade Ins

   3.10.310   Surplus Supplies - Sale

   3.10.320   Creation of Surplus Property Authority

3.10.010   Adoption of Purchasing System.

In order to establish efficient procedures for the purchase of supplies
and equipment at the lowest possible cost commensurate with quality
needed, to exercise positive financial control over purchases, to
clearly define authority for the purchasing function and to assure the
quality of purchases, a purchasing system is adopted.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.020   Purchasing Agent.

There is created the position of Purchasing Agent, who may also be known
as the "Purchasing Officer." He/she shall be appointed by the Finance
Director subject to the approval of the City Manager. The Purchasing
Agent shall be the head and have general supervision of the purchasing
division. The duties of Purchasing Agent may be combined with those of
any other office or position. The Purchasing Agent shall have the
authority to:

   A.   Purchase or contract for supplies and equipment required by any
using agency in accordance with purchasing procedures prescribed in this
Chapter, such administrative regulations as the Purchasing Agent shall
adopt for the internal management and operation of the purchasing
division and such other rules and regulations as shall be prescribed by
the City Council or the City Manager;

   B.   Negotiate and recommend execution of contracts for the purchase
of supplies and equipment;

   C.   Act to procure for the City the needed quality in supplies and
equipment at least expense to the City;

   D.   Discourage uniform bidding and endeavor to obtain as full and
open competition as possible on all purchases;

   E.   Prepare and recommend to the City Council rules governing the
purchase of supplies and equipment for the City;

   F.   Prepare and recommend revisions and amendments to the purchasing
rules;

   G.   Keep informed of current developments in the field of
purchasing, prices, market conditions and new products;

   H.   Prescribe and maintain such forms as are reasonably necessary
for the operation of this Chapter and other rules and regulations;

   I.   Supervise the inspection of all supplies and equipment purchased
to ensure conformance with specifications;

   J.   Recommend the transfer of surplus or unused supplies and
equipment between departments as needed; and

   K.   Maintain an approved vendors list, vendors catalog file and
records needed for the efficient operation of the purchasing division.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.030   Purchasing Regulations.

The Purchasing Agent shall be responsible for determining that the
regulations and procedures in Section 3.10.040 through 3.10.100, and
Chapter 3.15 of this Title are carried out.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.040   Exemptions from Centralized Purchasing.

The City Manager may authorize, in writing, any department to purchase
specified supplies and equipment independently of the purchasing
division; but, he shall require that such purchases shall be made in
conformity with the procedures established by this Chapter and shall
further require periodic reports from the department on the purchases
made under such written authorization.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.050   Estimates of Requirements.

All using departments shall file detailed estimates of their
requirements in supplies and equipment in such manner, at such time, and
for such future periods as the Purchasing Agent shall prescribe.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.060   Requisitions.

Using departments shall submit requests for supplies and equipment to
the Purchasing Agent by standard requisition forms or by other means as
may be established by the purchasing rules and regulations.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.070   Purchase Orders.

Purchases of supplies and equipment shall be made only by purchase
orders. Except as otherwise provided herein, no purchase order shall be
issued unless the prior approval of the Purchasing Agent or his
designated representative has been obtained.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.080   Encumbrance of Funds.

Except in cases of emergency, the Purchasing Agent shall not issue any
purchase order for supplies or equipment unless there exists an
unencumbered appropriation in the fund account against which said
purchase is to be charged.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.090   Inspection and Testing.

The Purchasing Agent shall, in his/her discretion, inspect supplies and
equipment delivered to determine their conformance with the
specifications set forth in the order. The Purchasing Agent shall have
authority to require chemical and physical tests of samples submitted
with bids and samples of deliveries which are necessary to determine
their quality and conformance with specifications.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.100   Bidding.

Purchases of supplies and equipment shall be by bid procedures pursuant
to Sections 3.10.110 through 3.10.260. Bidding may be dispensed with
only under conditions stated in Section 3.10.270.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.110   Formal (Sealed) Bid Procedures.

Except as otherwise provided herein and in Chapter 3.15 of this Title,
public projects, as defined in Public Contracts Code Section 20162, of
an estimated value greater than twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00), and purchases of supplies and equipment of an estimated
value greater than thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) shall be awarded
to the lowest responsible bidder pursuant to the formal bid procedures
as hereinafter prescribed.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.120   Notice Inviting Formal Bids.

Notices inviting formal bids shall include a general description of the
article or service desired, shall state where bid documents and
specifications may be secured and the time and place for opening bids.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.130   Published Notice for Formal Bids.

Notices inviting formal bids shall be published at least ten (10) days
prior to the date of opening of the bids. Notices shall be published at
least once for non-public projects and at least twice, not less that
five (5) days apart for public projects, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.140   Approved Vendors List.

The Purchasing Agent shall also solicit formal sealed bids from
responsible suppliers whose names are on the approved vendors list or
who have made written request that their names be added thereto.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.150   Bulletin Board Notice.

The Purchasing Agent shall advertise the pending formal purchases by
posting a notice on the public bulletin board at the City offices.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.160   Bidder’s Security.

When a public project is involved, and in other cases when deemed
necessary by the Purchasing Agent, formal bids shall be accompanied by
security, either cash, cashier’s check, certified check or surety bond,
in a sum equal to ten percent (10%) of the total aggregate of the bid,
and shall be designated in the notice inviting bids. Bidders shall be
entitled to return of bid security, provided, however, that a successful
bidder shall forfeit his bid security upon his refusal or failure to
execute the contract within ten (10) days after the notice of award of
contract has been mailed, unless the City is solely responsible for the
delay in executing the contract. The City Council may, on refusal or
failure of the successful bidder to execute the contract, award it to
the next lowest responsible bidder who is willing to execute the
contract, or may reject all bids and re-advertise.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.170   Other Formal Bond Requirements.

A faithful performance bond and labor and material (payment) bond shall
be required for all public projects, unless waived by the City Council,
in an amount reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the
City. In addition, the City Council shall have authority to require a
faithful performance bond or other bonds before entering into a contract
other than a public project contract. If bonds are required, the form
and amount thereof shall be designated in the notice inviting bids.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.180   Formal Bid Opening Procedure.

Sealed bids shall be submitted to the Purchasing Agent and shall be
identified as “bids” on the envelope. The purchasing officer, or
designee, shall publicly open all bids at the time and place stated in
the public notices. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available
for public inspection in the purchasing office during regular business
hours for a period of not less than thirty (30) calendar days after the
bid opening.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.190   Rejection of Formal Bids.

In its discretion, the City Council may reject any and all bids
presented and may cause re-advertising for bids pursuant to the
procedure herein above prescribed. However, when all bids exceed the
authorized budgeted amount, the City Manager may authorize rejection of
all bids and authorize rebidding based upon the original specifications
or as they may be modified, in accordance with procedures prescribed
herein.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.200   Award of Formal Bid Contracts.

Except as otherwise provided herein, formal bid contracts shall be
awarded by the City Council to the lowest responsible bidder. The
determination of “lowest responsible bidder” shall be at the discretion
of the City Council pursuant to findings and recommendations presented
by the Purchasing Agent at the time of award of contract.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.210   Tie Formal Bids.

If two (2) or more formal bids received are for the same total amount or
unit price, quality and service being equal, and if the public interest
will not permit the delay of re-advertising for bids, the City Council
may in its discretion accept the one it chooses or accept the lowest bid
made by and after negotiation with the tie bidders at the time of the
bid opening or award of contract.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.212   Credit for Sales and Use Tax.

In determining which responsible bidder is the lowest bidder, the
Purchasing Agent in his findings and recommendations shall deduct from
the total price of each bid, the amount of sales and use tax revenues
which will be paid to the City on account of that portion of the bid
price which is directly subject to the imposition of such taxes. The
Purchasing Agent shall have no obligation to make such a determination
unless the affected bidder so requests in its bid and furnishes
sufficient information for the determination to be made. This Section
shall be operative only in respect to projects where the request for
proposals or bids contains a copy of this Section and specifies that a
credit for related local sales and use tax payable to the City will be
granted.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.215   No Formal Bids.

When no formal bids or no responsive bids are received, the Purchasing
Agent is authorized to negotiate for written proposals; and his
recommendation shall be presented to the City Manager and award, if any,
shall be made in accordance with applicable provisions prescribed
herein.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.230   Open Market or Informal Bid Procedure.

Purchases of supplies and equipment of an estimated value in the amount
of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) or less may be made by the
Purchasing Agent in the open market pursuant to the procedure prescribed
in Sections 3.10.240 through 3.10.260 and without observing the
procedure prescribed in Sections 3.10.090 through 3.10.215, where the
procedure prescribed in Chapter 3.15 has been followed; and provided,
however, all bidding may be dispensed with for purchases of supplies and
equipment having a total estimated value of less than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00).

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.240   Minimum Number of Informal Bids.

Open market purchases shall, wherever possible, be based on at least
three (3) informal bids and shall be awarded to the bidder offering the
most advantageous bid to the City after consideration of price, quality,
durability, servicing, delivery time, standardization, and other
factors.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.250   Notice Inviting Informal Bids.

The Purchasing Agent shall solicit informal bids by written requests to
prospective vendors, or by telephone, or by public notice posted on a
public bulletin board at the City offices.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.260   Record of Informal Bids.

The Purchasing Agent shall keep a written record of all open market
purchases and informal bids for a period of one (1) year. This record,
while so kept, shall be open to public inspection.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.270   Exceptions to Competitive Bidding Requirement.

Notwithstanding any provision of this Chapter to the contrary, the
competitive bidding procedures and requirements may be dispensed with in
any of the following instances:

   A.   When the estimated amount involved is less than thirty thousand
dollars ($30,000.00);

   B.   When the commodity can be obtained from only one (1) vendor (a
“sole source” procurement);

   C.   The City Manager may authorize the purchase of materials,
supplies, equipment and services where an emergency is deemed to exist;
and it is determined that service involving the public health, safety or
welfare would be interrupted if the normal procedure were followed. All
emergency purchases, which would otherwise require formal bidding
procedures, made pursuant to this Section shall be submitted to the City
Council for ratification at the next regular Council meeting after the
purchase is authorized;

   D.   The City Council may authorize the execution of contracts for
personal services, for professional and consultant services, and for
other, non-public projects and for contractual services without
observing the bidding procedures provided herein where the amount of the
contract exceeds the value of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00);

   E.   The City Manager is authorized to enter into contracts for
personal services, for professional and consulting services and for
other contractual services without observing the bidding procedure
provided herein where the amount of the contract does not exceed the
amount of seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000.00), provided there
exists an unencumbered appropriation in the fund account against which
said expense is to be charged;

   F.   Any agreement involving acquisition of supplies, equipment or
service entered into with another governmental entity;

   G.   The City Council may authorize the execution of a lease or
leases for office space for the City government without observing the
bidding procedures provided herein irrespective of the term of the lease
or leases or the amount of rent and other charges to be paid by the City
under the lease or leases;

   H.   Where advantageous for the City, the City Council may authorize,
or may authorize the City Manager to allow, the Finance Director or the
Purchasing Agent to purchase supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services through legal competitively awarded contracts with
or of other governmental jurisdictions or public agencies, commonly
referred to as “piggybacking” and/or “cooperative purchasing,” without
further contracting, solicitation, or formal bidding as described in
this Chapter. As used herein:

      1.   “Piggyback” means the form of intergovernmental cooperative
purchasing in which a large purchaser requests competitive sealed bids,
enters into a contract and arranges, as part of the contract, for other
public purchasing agencies to purchase from the selected vendor under
the same terms and conditions as itself and eliminates the need to
competitively bid the particular item again.

      2.   “Cooperative purchasing” means a form of intergovernmental
cooperative purchasing in which one (1) government agency or
jurisdiction performs the solicitation and award process for several
agencies or jurisdictions, but separate contracts or purchase orders are
executed between each participating agency and the vendor; the agency
contracting for the prices bears no contractual responsibility to the
vendor.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07; Ord. No. 651, Section 1, 5/22/24.]

3.10.280   Regulation Regarding Selection of Contract Services.

The City Council may by resolution prescribe procedures, rules and
regulations governing the solicitation, selection and award of proposals
or bids for the furnishing of personal services or professional or
consulting services or for other contractual services, the contracts for
which may be awarded without observing the bidding procedures provided
for in this Chapter. Such procedures, rules and regulations shall have
as one purpose the obtaining of contractual services of the highest
quality together with cost effectiveness.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.290   Surplus Supplies and Equipment.

All using departments shall submit to the Purchasing Agent, at such
times and in such forms as he shall prescribe, reports showing all
supplies and equipment which are no longer used or which have become
obsolete and worn out. The City Manager shall have the authority to sell
all supplies and equipment which cannot be used by any officer or
department or which have become unsuitable for City use, or to exchange
the same for, or trade in the same on new supplies and equipment. The
City Manager, when directed by the Mayor and Council, shall restrict the
sale of surplus supplies, materials and equipment of a value in an
amount of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) or less to local non-profit
tax exempt corporations, associations or organizations, or shall
negotiate and consummate a sale to a governmental agency. Each
restricted or negotiated sale under this Section shall be consummated at
the fair market value of the surplus supplies or equipment. Such sales
shall be made pursuant to Sections 3.10.215 through 3.10.270, whichever
is applicable.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.300   Surplus Supplies - Trade Ins.

The Purchasing Agent shall have authority to exchange for or trade in on
new supplies and equipment all supplies and equipment which cannot be
used by any department or which have become unsuitable for City use.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.310   Surplus Supplies - Sale.

The Purchasing Agent shall also have authority, subject to approval of
the City Manager, to dispose of surplus supplies or equipment by auction
or by sale or otherwise after receiving bids or proposals which, in his
judgment, provide the maximum return to the City.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.10.320   Surplus Property Authority Created.

   A.   The public interest, economy, health, safety, education and
general welfare of the City of Adelanto and of the residents and
property owners in it require, and there is determined to be a need for,
the Surplus Property Authority of the City of Adelanto to function in
the City.

   B.   The Surplus Property Authority of the City of Adelanto is hereby
created and duly authorized to transact business and exercise its powers
pursuant to Chapter 19, Government Code, State of California, Sections
40500 through 40592, et seq.

[Ord. No. 217, 3/14/89; Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 3.15
INFORMAL BID PROCEDURES - UNIFORM PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION COST ACCOUNTING
ACT

Sections:

   3.15.010   Informal Bid Procedures

   3.15.020   Contractors List

   3.15.030   Notice Inviting Informal Bids

   3.15.040   Award of Contracts

3.15.010   Informal Bid Procedures.

   A.   Chapter 3.10 notwithstanding, public projects, as defined by the
Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act (Public Contract Code
Sections 22000 et seq.), of one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars
($125,000.00) or less may be let to contract by informal procedures as
set forth in Public Contract Code Sections 22032 et seq.

   B.   Public projects of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) or less
may be performed by City employees by force account, by negotiated
contract, or by purchase order.

   C.   Public projects of more than one hundred twenty-five thousand
dollars ($125,000.00) shall, except as otherwise provided in this
Chapter, be let to contract by formal bidding procedure.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.15.020   Contractors List.

A list of contractors shall be developed and maintained in accordance
with the provisions of Public Contract Code Section 22034 and criteria
promulgated from time to time by the California Uniform Construction
Cost Accounting Commission.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.15.030   Notice Inviting Informal Bids.

Where a public project is to be performed which is subject to the
provisions of this Chapter, a notice inviting informal bids shall be
mailed to all contractors for the category of work to be bid, as shown
on the list developed in accordance with Section 3.15.020, and to all
construction trade journals as specified by the California Uniform
Construction Cost Accounting Commission in accordance with Public
Contract Code Section 22036. Additional contractors and/or construction
trade journals may be notified at the discretion of the
department/agency soliciting bids, provided however:

   A.   If there is not a list of qualified contractors maintained by
the City for the particular category of work to be performed, the notice
inviting bids shall be sent only to the construction trade journals
specified by the Commission.

   B.   If the product or service is proprietary in nature such that it
can be obtained only from a certain contractor or contractors, the
notice inviting informal bids may be sent exclusively to such contractor
or contractors.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.15.040   Award of Contracts.

The City Purchasing Agent is authorized to award informal contracts
pursuant to this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 3.20
CLAIMS AND DEMANDS

Sections:

   3.20.010   Claims for Money or Damages

   3.20.020   Auditing Prerequisite to Payment

   3.20.030   Form of Claim

   3.20.040   Claim Prerequisite to Suit

   3.20.050   Suit

   3.20.060   Departmental Approval of Claims

   3.20.070   Approval by Finance Director

   3.20.080   Prepayment of Demands

   3.20.090   Register of Demands

   3.20.100   Record of Approved Demands

   3.20.110   City Council Approval

3.20.010   Claims for Money or Damages.

   A.   As a prerequisite to bringing suit thereon against the City or
any officer, department, commission or board of the City, any claim for
money or damages (including claims which would otherwise be excepted by
Government Code Section 905) which is not governed by any other statutes
or regulations expressly relating thereto, shall be presented and acted
upon in accordance with Title 1, Division 3.6, Part 3, Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section
910), of the Government Code.

   B.   All claims against the City for money or damages not otherwise
governed by the Tort Claims Act, Government Code Sections 900 et seq.,
or another State law (hereinafter in this Chapter, “claims”) shall be
presented within the time, and in the manner, prescribed by Part 3 of
Division 3.6 of Title 1 of the Government Code (commencing with Section
900 thereof) for the claims to which that Part applies by its own terms,
as those provisions now exist or shall hereafter be amended, and as
further provided by this Chapter.

   C.   This Section shall relate only to the bringing of suit upon any
claim and shall not be deemed to apply to the authority of the Finance
Director, the City Council and other officers to process and pay, in the
ordinary course of business, the just obligations of the City, such as
routine salaries and wages, principal and interest on bonds, payments of
purchases, and other like expenditures for which there is an express
budget appropriation, and in connection with which there is no dispute
as to the obligation and amount being payable.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.20.020   Auditing Prerequisite to Payment.

No payment shall be made from the City treasury or out of the funds of
the City unless the demand which is to be paid is duly audited as
prescribed herein or by other provisions of law.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.20.030   Form of Claim.

All claims shall be made in writing on forms to be prescribed by the
Finance Director and verified by the claimant or by his or her guardian,
conservator, executor or administrator. No claim may be filed on behalf
of a class of persons unless verified by every member of that class as
required by this Section. In addition, all claims shall contain the
information required by Government Code Section 910 and otherwise as
required herein.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.20.040   Claim Prerequisite to Suit.

In accordance with Government Code Sections 935(b) and 945.6, all claims
shall be presented as provided in this Chapter and acted upon by the
City Council prior to the filing of any action on such claims; and no
such action may be maintained by a person who has not complied with the
requirements of this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.20.050   Suit.

Any action brought against the City upon any claim or demand shall
conform to the requirements of Government Code Sections 940 through 949.
Any action brought against any employee of the City shall conform with
the requirements of Government Code Sections 950 through 951.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.20.060   Departmental Approval of Claims.

Except for tort claims, every claim and demand received against the City
shall be first presented to and approved in writing by the receiving
department or office, which shall certify to the actual delivery or
rendition of the supplies, materials, property or service for which
payment is claimed; that the quality and prices correspond with the
original specifications and contracts, if any, upon which the claim is
based; that the demand in all other respects is proper and valid, and
which shall further indicate the budgetary account to which said demand
is to be charged.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.20.070   Approval by Finance Director.

Each demand approved by the receiving department or office shall be
presented to the Finance Director who shall satisfy himself/herself
whether.

   A.   The claim is legally due and owing by the City;

   B.   There are budgeted or otherwise appropriated funds available to
pay said claim;

   C.   The claim conforms to a valid requisition or order,

   D.   The prices and computations shown on the claim are verified;

   E.   The claim contains the approval of other departments and
officials as required.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.20.080   Prepayment of Demands.

   A.   Prepayment of demands prior to audit by the City Council may be
made by the Finance Director in conformity with the authority provided
by Government Code Section 37208.

   B.   Whenever the Finance Director determines that a refund is due of
fees, taxes or other receipts collected in error or in advance of being
earned, or of money the refund of which is otherwise due pursuant to
specific provisions of this Code or of any other ordinance of this City,
then any such refund shall be deemed as conforming to the currently
approved budget and may be prepaid in the same fashion as other demands
encompassed within the terms of Subsection A. of this Section.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.20.090   Register of Demands.

Following audit of demands the Finance Director shall prepare a register
of audited demands showing the claimant’s name, amount of demand, the
warrant number and date thereof, and transmit said register to the City
Manager for his review and presentation to the City Council, with his
approval or other report.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.20.100   Record of Approved Demands.

Following approval of the register of demands by the City Council, the
City Manager shall endorse the register of audited demands to signify
there was proper processing of demands therein before the City Council
took action.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.20.110   City Council Approval.

The register of demands shall be presented to the City Council at the
next regular meeting thereof. The City Council may approve,
conditionally or partially approve or reject such register of demands
and in connection therewith consider the recommendations of the City
Manager.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 3.25
SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND

Sections:

   3.25.010   Created

   3.25.020   Moneys Included

   3.25.030   Expenditures

3.25.010   Created.

To comply with the provisions of Section 2113 of the Streets and
Highways Code of California and to avail the City of its benefits of
Sections 2106 and 2107 of said Code, there is hereby created in the City
treasury a special fund to be known as the “Special Gas Tax Street
Improvement Fund.”

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.25.020   Moneys Included.

All moneys received by the City from the State of California under the
provisions of the Streets and Highways Code for the acquisition of real
property or interests therein, or for engineering, or for the
construction, maintenance and improvement of streets or highways by the
City shall be paid into said fund.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.25.030   Expenditures.

All moneys in said fund shall be expended exclusively for the purposes
authorized by and subject to the provisions of the Streets and Highways
Code of California.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 3.30
TRANSFER OF TAX FUNCTIONS

Section:

   3.30.010   Assessment and Collection of City Taxes by County

3.30.010   Assessment and Collection of City Taxes by County.

Pursuant to, and in compliance with Government Code Section 51501, the
assessment and tax collection duties which otherwise might be performed
by a City assessor and tax collector are transferred to the Assessor and
Tax Collector of the County of San Bernardino.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 3.35
REAL PROPERTY DOCUMENTARY TRANSFER TAX

Sections:

   3.35.010   Short title - Adoption

   3.35.020   Imposition - Rates

   3.35.030   Payment

   3.35.040   Tax Inapplicable to Instruments in Writing to Secure Debts

   3.35.050   Government and Its Agencies Not Liable

   3.35.060   Tax Inapplicable to Conveyances to Make Effective Plan of
Reorganization or Adjustment

   3.35.070   Tax Inapplicable to Make Effective Order of Securities and
Exchange Commission

   3.35.080   Partnerships

   3.35.090   Tax Roll Parcel Number Requirements

   3.35.100   Administration

   3.35.110   Claims for Refund

3.35.010   Short Title - Adoption.

This Chapter shall be known as the “Real Property Transfer Tax Ordinance
of the City,” adopted pursuant to the authority contained in Part 6.7
(commencing with Section 11901) of Division 2 of the State Revenue and
Taxation Code.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.35.020   Imposition - Rates.

There is imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any lands,
tenements or other realty sold within the City shall be granted,
assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in, the
purchaser or purchasers, or any other person or persons, by his or their
direction, when the consideration or value of the interest or property
conveyed (exclusive of the value of any lien or encumbrances remaining
thereon at the time of sale) exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00), a
tax at the rate of twenty-seven and one-half cents (27.5¢) for each five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or fractional part thereof.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.35.030   Payment.

Any tax imposed pursuant to Section 3.35.020 shall be paid by any person
who makes, signs or issues any document or instrument subject to the tax
or for whose use or benefit the same is made, signed or issued.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.35.040   Tax Inapplicable to Instruments in Writing to Secure Debts.

Any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to any
instrument in writing given to secure a debt.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.35.050   Government and Its Agencies Not Liable.

Any deed, instrument or writing to which the United States or any agency
or instrumentality thereof, or any state or territory or political
subdivision thereof, is a party shall be exempt from any tax imposed
pursuant to this Chapter when the exempt agency is acquiring title, as
provided in Revenue and Taxation Code Section 11922.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.35.060   Tax Inapplicable to Conveyances to Make Effective Plan of
Reorganization or Adjustment.

Any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to the making,
delivering or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of
reorganization or adjustment:

   A.   Confirmed under the Federal Bankruptcy Act, as amended;

   B.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court
involving a railroad corporation, as defined in subdivision (m) of
Section 205 of Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended; or

   C.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court
involving a corporation, as defined in subdivision (3) of Section 506 of
Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended; or

   D.   Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place of organization
is effected.

Subdivisions A. through D., inclusive, of this Section shall only apply
if the making, delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or
conveyances occurs within five (5) years from the date of such
confirmation, approval or change.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.35.070   Tax Inapplicable to Make Effective Order of Securities and
Exchange Commission.

Any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to the making
or delivery of conveyances to make effective any order of the Securities
and Exchange Commission, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 1083
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, but only if:

   A.   The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission in obedience
to which such conveyance is made recites that such conveyance is
necessary or appropriate to effectuate the provisions of Section 79k of
Title 15 of the United States Code, relating to the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935;

   B.   Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be
conveyed;

   C.   Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.35.080   Partnerships.

   A.   In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall
be imposed pursuant to this Chapter by reason of any transfer of an
interest in a partnership or otherwise, if:

      1.   Such partnership (or another partnership) is considered a
continuing partnership within the meaning of Section 708 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1954; and

      2.   Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty
concerned.

   B.   If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning
of Section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, for purposes of
this Chapter, such partnership shall be treated as having executed an
instrument whereby there was conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive
of the value of any lien of encumbrances remaining thereon), all realty
held by such partnership at the time of such termination.

   C.   Not more than one (1) tax shall be imposed pursuant to this
Chapter by reason of a termination described in Subsection B., and any
transfer pursuant thereto, with respect to the realty held by such
partnership at the time of such termination.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.35.090   Tax Roll Parcel Number Requirements.

Each deed, instrument or writing by which lands, tenements or other
realty is sold, granted, assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed
shall have noted upon it the tax roll parcel number. The number will be
used only for administrative and procedural purposes and will not be
proof of title; and in the event of any conflicts, the stated legal
description noted upon the document shall govern. The validity of such a
document shall not be affected by the fact that such parcel number is
erroneous or omitted, and there shall be no liability attaching to any
person for an error in such number or for omission of such number. The
recorder shall not accept any deed, instrument or conveyance for
recording unless the tax roll parcel number has been noted upon it. A
parcel which has been created by the division of an existing parcel and
which at the time of recording has no separate parcel number shall have
noted upon it the words “portion of” and the parcel number of the parcel
from which it was created.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.35.100   Administration.

The County recorder shall administer this Chapter in conformity with the
provisions of Part 6.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
and the provisions of any County ordinance adopted pursuant thereto.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.35.110   Claims for Refund.

Claims for refund of taxes imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall be
governed by the provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 5096)
of Part 9 of Division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 3.40
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

Sections:

   3.40.010   Short Title

   3.40.020   Definitions

   3.40.030   Tax Imposed

   3.40.040   Exemptions

   3.40.050   Operator’s Duties

   3.40.060   Registration

   3.40.070   Returns and Remittances

   3.40.080   Reporting and Remitting

   3.40.090   Cessation of Business

   3.40.100   Delinquency

   3.40.110   Fraud

   3.40.120   Failure to Collect and Report Tax - Determination of Tax
Administrator

   3.40.130   Appeal

   3.40.140   Records

   3.40.150   Refunds

   3.40.160   Revocation of Permit

   3.40.170   Closure of Hotel Without Permit

   3.40.180   Recording Certificate - Lien

   3.40.190   Priority and Lien of Tax

   3.40.200   Warrant for Collection of Tax

   3.40.210   Seizure and Sale

   3.40.220   Successor’s Liability - Withholding by Purchase

   3.40.230   Liability of Purchaser - Release

   3.40.240   Responsibility for Payment

   3.40.250   Withhold Notice

   3.40.260   Violations - Misdemeanor

   3.40.270   Extension of Time

   3.40.280   Divulging of Information Forbidden

   3.40.290   Agreement with County

3.40.010   Short Title.

The short title of this Chapter shall be the “Transient Occupancy Tax
Ordinance.” The tax imposed and the methodology established therefor
were enacted pursuant to Ord. No. 260.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.020   Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in
this Section shall govern the construction of this Chapter:

   A.   “Hotel” means any structure, or any portion of any structure,
which is occupied or intended or designed for use or occupancy by
transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes any
hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel,
lodging hotel or house, rooming house, apartment house, dormitory,
public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a fixed location
or other similar structure or portion thereof;

   B.   “Occupancy” means the use or possession, or the right or
entitlement to the use or possession, of any room or rooms or any
portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes, regardless of the purpose for which such rooms are rented or
provided;

   C.   “Operator” means the person who is proprietor of the hotel
whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, sub-lessee, mortgagee in
possession, licensee, or in any other capacity. Where the operator
performs his functions through a managing agent of any type or character
other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed an
operator for the purpose of this Chapter and shall have the same duties
and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter by either the principal or the managing agent shall, however, be
considered to be compliance by both;

   D.   “Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee,
syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit;

   E.   “Rent” means the amount of the consideration charged or
chargeable to the tenant or person entitled to occupancy, for the
occupancy of space in a hotel, valued in money whether received in
money, goods, labor or otherwise, including the full value of receipts,
cash, credits, property or services of any kind or nature, without any
deduction therefrom whatsoever. “Rent” may have been, or may be in part,
payable or paid prior to or following (in whole or in part) the
occupancy to which it is attributable, and may have been paid in whole
or in part in advance on a long-term basis, such as in a time-share
project or similar arrangement. It is not the intent of this Subsection
to make the operator liable for the tax on uncollected rent. “Rent”
shall exclude that portion of the consideration charged for food.
However, uncollected rent must be reported.

   F.   “Tax Administrator” means the City Manager or his designated
agent, whether a City employee or County officer or employee.

   G.   “Transient” means any person who exercises occupancy or is
entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access,
license, or other agreement of whatever nature, for a period of less
than thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of
calendar days as full days. Any person so occupying space in a hotel
shall be deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty (30) days
has expired. In determining whether a person is a transient,
uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and subsequent to the
effective date of this Chapter shall apply.

[Ord. No. 149; Ord. No. 260; Rev. & Taxation Code § 7280; Ord. No. 461,
Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.030   Tax Imposed.

   A.   For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is
subject to, and shall pay a tax in the amount of ten percent (10%) of
the rent charged by the operator. Said tax constitutes a debt owed by
the transient to the City, which is extinguished only by payment to the
operator or to the City. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator
of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in
installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each
installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to
occupy space in the hotel. If, for any reason, the tax due is not paid
to the operator of the hotel, the Tax Administrator may require that
such tax be paid directly to the Tax Administrator. [Ord. No. 260.]

   B.   Said tax imposed shall be applied in the following manner:

      1.   Eight percent (8%) of the transient occupancy tax shall be
deposited into the City’s general fund for use in any manner deemed of
benefit to the City. [Ord. No. 260.]

      2.   Two percent (2%) of the transient occupancy tax collected
quarterly shall be used for economic development activities of the City.
[Ord. No. 260.]

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.040   Exemptions.

   A.   No tax shall be imposed upon:

      1.   Any person as to whom or any occupancy as to which it is
beyond the power of the City to impose the tax herein provided;

      2.   Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt
by reason of express provision of federal law or international treaty.

   B.   No exemptions shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made
at the time the rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a
form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.050   Operator’s Duties.

Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this Chapter to the same
extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from every
transient. The amount of the tax shall be separately stated from the
amount of the rent charged. No operator of a hotel shall advertise or
state in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any
part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it
will not be added to the rent, or that, if added, any part will be
refunded except in the manner hereinafter provided.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.060   Registration.

   A.   Every person desiring to engage in or conduct business as
operator of a hotel renting to transients within the City shall, prior
to commencing such business, file with the Tax Administrator an
application for a transient occupancy registration permit for each place
of business. Every application for such a permit shall be made upon a
form prescribed by the Tax Administrator and shall set forth the name
under which the applicant transacts or intends to transact business, the
location of his place of business and such other information as the Tax
Administrator may require. The application shall be signed by the owner
if a natural person, if a member or partner, if an association or
partnership, by an executive officer or some person specifically
authorized by the corporation to sign the application in the case of a
corporation. The transient occupancy registration permit must be in
effect at all times while the business is in operation and shall be at
all times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. Said permit
shall, among other things, state the following:

      1.   Name of hotel;

      2.   Name of operator;

      3.   Hotel address;

      4.   The date upon which the permit was issued;

      5.   “This Transient Occupancy Registration Permit signifies that
the person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of
the Transient Occupancy Tax Chapter by registering with the Tax
Administrator for the purpose of collecting from transients the
Transient Occupancy Tax and remitting said tax to the Tax Administrator.
This Permit does not authorize any person to conduct any unlawful
business in an unlawful manner, nor operate a hotel without strictly
complying with all applicable laws, including but not limited to those
requiring a permit from any board, commission, department or office of
this City. This Permit does not apply in lieu of such other permits
which are otherwise required.”

   B.   At the time of making an application for a registration permit,
the applicant shall pay a registration fee of five dollars ($5.00) for
each permit issued.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.070   Returns and Remittances.

The tax imposed under Section 3.40.030 is:

   A.   Due to the Tax Administrator at the time it is collected by the
operator; and

   B.   Becomes delinquent and subject to penalties if not received by
the Tax Administrator on or before the last working day of the month
following the close of each calendar quarter.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.080   Reporting and Remitting.

Each operator shall, on or before the last working day of the month
following the close of each calendar quarter, file a return with the Tax
Administrator on the forms provided by him, of the total rents charged
or chargeable as provided in Section 3.40.030, whether or not received,
including any rentals charged for occupancies exempt under the
provisions of Section 3.40.020.G and 3.40.040 and the amount of tax
collected for transient occupancies. Each such return shall contain a
declaration under penalty of perjury, executed by the operator or his
authorized agent, that to the best of the signatory’s knowledge, the
statements in the return are true, correct and complete. Amounts claimed
on the return as exempt from the tax pursuant to Sections 3.40.020.G,
3.40.040 and 3.40.150 shall be fully itemized and explained on the
return or supporting schedule. In determining the amount of “taxable
receipts” on the tax return, “rent” as defined in Section 3.40.020.E.,
may not be reduced by any business expenses including, but not limited
to, the amount of service charges deducted by credit card companies or
commissions paid to travel agencies. At the time the return is filed,
the tax fixed at the prevailing transient occupancy tax rate for the
amount of rentals charged or chargeable, which are not exempt from tax
under Section 3.40.020.G., 3.40.040 and 3.40.150 shall be remitted to
the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator may establish other
reporting periods and may require a cash deposit or bond or a separate
trust fund bank account for any permit holder if he deems it necessary
in order to ensure collection of the tax, and he may require further
information in the return. All taxes collected by operators pursuant to
this Chapter shall be held in trust for the account of the City until
remittance thereof is made to the Tax Administrator.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.090   Cessation of Business.

Each operator shall notify the Tax Administrator ten (10) days prior to
the sale or cessation of business for any reason, and returns and
remittances are due immediately upon the sale or cessation of business.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.100   Delinquency.

Any operator who fails to remit any tax to the City or any amount of tax
required to be collected and remitted to the City including amounts
based on determination made by the Tax Administrator under Section
3.40.120 within the time required, shall pay a penalty of ten percent
(10%) of the tax or amount of the tax in addition to the tax or amount
of tax plus interest at the rate of one-half percent (1/2%) per month,
or fraction thereof, from the date on which the tax or the amount of tax
required to be collected becomes delinquent until the date of remittance
or payment. Any operator who fails to pay any penalty imposed under this
Section within ten (10) days after receipt of notice thereof shall pay
interest thereon at the rate of one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) per
month, or fraction thereof, from the date on which the penalty becomes
due and payable to the City until the date of payment.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.110   Fraud.

If the Tax Administrator determines that the failure to make any
remittance or payment due under this Chapter is due to fraud, a penalty
of one hundred percent (100%) of the amount of the tax and penalties
shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in Section
3.40.100.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.120   Failure to Collect and Report Tax - Determination of Tax
Administrator.

If any operator fails or refuses to collect said tax and to make, within
the time provided in this Chapter, any report and remittance of said tax
or any portion thereof required by this Chapter, the Tax Administrator
shall proceed in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and
information on which to base his estimate of the tax due. As soon as the
Tax Administrator procures such facts and information as he is able to
obtain upon which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by the
Chapter payable by any operator who has failed or refused to collect the
same and make such report and remittance, he shall proceed to determine
and assess against such operator the tax, interest and penalties
provided for by this Chapter. In case such determination is made, the
Tax Administrator shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by
serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at his last known
address. Such operator may, within ten (10) days after the serving or
mailing of such notice, make application in writing to the Tax
Administrator for a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by
the operator for a hearing is not made within the time prescribed, the
tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the Tax
Administrator, shall become final and conclusive and immediately due and
payable. If such application is made, the Tax Administrator shall give
not less than five (5) days written notice in the manner prescribed
herein to the operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in said
notice why said amount specified therein should not be fixed for such
tax, interest and penalties. At such hearing, the operator may appear
and offer evidence why such specified tax, interest and penalties should
not be so fixed. After such hearing the Tax Administrator shall
determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall thereafter give
written notice to the person in the manner prescribed herein of the
determination and the amount of such tax, interest and penalties. The
amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen (15) days
unless an appeal is taken as provided in Section 3.40.130.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.130   Appeal.

Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator with
respect to the amount of any tax, interest and penalties, if any, may
appeal to the City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City
Clerk within fifteen (15) days of serving of the assessment or
determination of tax and penalties, if any, due. The City Council shall
fix a time and place for hearing the appeal, and the City Clerk shall
give notice in writing to the operator at his last known address. The
findings of the City Council shall be final and conclusive and shall be
served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed above for service of
notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due
and payable upon the service of notice.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.140   Records.

It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and
remittance to the City of any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and
preserve, in the City, for a period of three (3) years, records in such
form as the Tax Administrator may require to determine the amount of
such tax. The Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect such
records at all reasonable times and may subpoena the records of any
operator who refuses to make them available for examination.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.150   Refunds.

   A.   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been
overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the City under this Chapter, it may be refunded
as provided in Subsections B. and C. of this Section, provided a claim
in writing therefor, stating under penalty of perjury the specific
grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the Tax
Administrator within three (3) years of the date of payment. The claims
shall be on forms furnished by the Tax Administrator.

   B.   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or
erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established in
a manner prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the person from whom
the tax has been collected was not a transient, provided, however, that
neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the
tax so collected has either been refunded to the person or credited to
rent subsequently payable by the person to the operator.

   C.   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more
than once erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City by
filing a claim in the manner provided in Subsection A. of this Section,
but only when the tax was paid by the transient directly to the Tax
Administrator, or when the transient having paid the tax to the
operator, establishes to the satisfaction of the Tax Administrator that
the transient has been unable to obtain a refund from the operator who
collected the tax.

   D.   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this Section
unless the claimant establishes his right thereto by written records.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.160   Revocation of Permit.

Whenever any operator fails to comply with any provision of this Chapter
relating to occupancy tax or any rule or regulation of the Tax
Administrator relating to occupancy tax prescribed and adopted under
this Chapter, the Tax Administrator upon hearing, after giving the
operator ten (10) days’ notice in writing specifying the time and place
of hearing and requiring him to show cause why his permit or permits
should not be revoked, may suspend or revoke any one (1) or more of the
permits held by the operator. The Tax Administrator shall give to the
operator written notice of the suspension or revocation of any of his
permits. The notices herein required may be served personally or by mail
in the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency
determination. The Tax Administrator shall not issue a new permit after
the revocation of a permit unless he is satisfied that the former holder
of the permit will comply with the provisions of this Chapter relating
to the occupancy tax and regulations of the Tax Administrator.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.170   Closure of Hotel Without Permit.

During any period of time during which a permit has not been issued, or
is suspended, revoked or otherwise not validly in effect, the Tax
Administrator may require that the hotel be closed.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.180   Recording Certificate - Lien.

If any amount required to be remitted or paid to the City under this
Chapter is not remitted or paid when due, the Tax Administrator may,
within three (3) years after the amount is due, file for record in the
office of the County of San Bernardino recorder a certificate specifying
the amount of tax, penalties and interest due, the name and address as
it appears on the records of the Tax Administrator of the operator
liable for the same and the fact that the Tax Administrator has complied
with all provisions of this Chapter in the determination of the amount
required to be remitted and paid. From the time of the filing for
record, the amount required to be remitted together with penalties and
interest constituting a lien upon all real property in the County owned
by the operator or afterwards and before the lien expires acquired by
him. The lien has the force, effect and priority of a judgment lien and
shall continue for ten (10) years from the time of filing of the
certificate unless sooner released or otherwise discharged.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.190   Priority and Lien of Tax.

   A.   The amounts required to be remitted and/or paid by any operator
under this Chapter with penalties and interest shall be satisfied first
in any of the following cases:

      1.   Whenever the person is insolvent;

      2.   Whenever the person makes a voluntary assignment of his
assets;

      3.   Whenever the estate of the person in the hands of executors,
administrators, or heirs is insufficient to pay all the debts due from
the deceased;

      4.   Whenever the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed
or absent person required to pay any amount under this Chapter are
levied upon by process law. This Chapter does not give the City a
preference over any recorded lien which attached prior to the date when
the amounts required to be paid became a lien.

   B.   The preference given to the City by this Section shall be
subordinate to the preferences given to claims for personal services by
Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1204 and 1206.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.200   Warrant for Collection of Tax.

At any time within three (3) years after any operator is delinquent in
the remittance or payment of any amount herein required to be remitted
or paid or within three (3) years after the last recording of a
certificate under Section 3.40.160, the Tax Administrator may issue a
warrant for the enforcement of any liens and for the collection of any
amount required to be paid to the City under this Chapter. The warrant
shall be directed to any sheriff, marshal, or constable and shall have
the same effect as a writ of execution. The warrant shall be levied and
sale made pursuant to it in the same manner with the same effect as a
levy of and a sale pursuant to a writ of execution. The Tax
Administrator may pay or advance to the sheriff, marshal, or constable
the same fees, commissions and expenses for his services as are provided
by law for similar services pursuant to a writ of execution. The Tax
Administrator, and not the court, shall approve the fees for publication
in a newspaper.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.210   Seizure and Sale.

At any time within three (3) years after any operator is delinquent in
the remittance or payment of any amount, the Tax Administrator may
forthwith collect the amount in the following manner. The Tax
Administrator shall seize any property, real or personal, of the
operator and sell the property, or a sufficient part of it, at public
auction to pay the amount due together with any penalties and interest
imposed for the delinquency and any costs incurred on account of the
seizure and sale. Any seizure made to collect occupancy taxes due shall
be only of property of the operator not exempt from execution under the
provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.220   Successor’s Liability - Withholding by Purchase.

If any operator liable for any amount under this Chapter sells out his
business or quits the business, his successor or assign shall withhold
sufficient of the purchase price to cover such amount until the former
owner produces a receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that it has
been paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.230   Liability of Purchaser - Release.

If the purchaser of a hotel fails to withhold from the purchase price as
required, he shall become personally liable for the payment of the
amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase
price, valued in money. Within sixty (60) days after receiving a written
request from the purchaser for a certificate, or within sixty (60) days
from the date the former owner’s records are made available for audit,
whichever period expires the later, but in any event not later than
ninety (90) days after receiving the request, the Tax Administrator
shall either issue the certificate or mail notice to the purchaser at
his address as it appears on the records of the Tax Administrator of the
amount that must be paid as a condition of issuing the certificate.
Failure of the Tax Administrator to mail the notice will release the
purchaser from any further obligation to withhold purchase price as
above provided. The time within which the obligation of the successor
may be enforced shall start to run at the time the operator sells his
business or at the time that the determination against the operator
becomes final, whichever event occurs the later.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.240   Responsibility for Payment.

Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of
this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the City.
Any such tax collected by an operator which has not been remitted to the
City is a fiduciary obligation of the operator to the City and
collectible in the same manner as a debt. Any person owing money to the
City under the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable to an action
brought in the name of the City of Adelanto for the recovery of such
amount.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.250   Withhold Notice.

If any person or operator is delinquent in the remittance or payment of
the amount required to be remitted or paid by him or in the event a
determination has been made against him for the remittance of tax and
payment of the penalty, the City may, within three (3) years after the
tax obligation became due, give notice thereof personally or by
registered mail to all persons, including the State or any political
subdivision thereof, having in their possession or under their control
any credits or other personal property belonging to the taxpayer. After
receiving the withholding notice, the person so notified shall make no
disposition of the taxpayer’s credits, other personal property or debts
until the City consents to a transfer or disposition or until sixty (60)
days elapse after the receipt of the notice, whichever expires earlier.
All persons, upon receipt of said notice, shall advise the City
immediately of all such credits, other personal property or debts in
their possession, under their control or owing by them. If such notice
seeks to prevent the transfer or other disposition of a deposit in a
bank or other credits or personal property in the possession or under
the control of the bank to be effective, the notice shall be delivered
or mailed to the branch or office of such bank at which such deposit is
carried or at which such credits or personal property is held. If any
person so notified makes transfer or disposition of the property or
debts required to be held hereunder during the effective period of the
notice to withhold, he shall be liable to the City to the extent of the
value of the release up to the amount of the indebtedness owed by the
taxpayer to the City.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.260   Violations - Misdemeanor.

   A.   Except for failure of an operator to pay to the Tax
Administrator taxes collected under this Chapter which is punishable as
a felony pursuant to Penal Code Section 424, every violation of this
Chapter is a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, punishable in accordance
with Sections 1.20.010 through 1.20.090 of this Code.

   B.   If such offense is not otherwise punishable as mentioned in
Subsection A. above, any person willfully failing to comply with, or
knowingly violating, any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.

   C.   Any operator or other person who willfully fails or refuses to
register as required herein, or to furnish any return required to be
made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other
data required by the Tax Administrator, or who renders a false or
fraudulent return or claim, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person
required to make, render, sign or verify any report or claim who
willfully makes any false or fraudulent report or claim with intent to
defeat or evade the determination of any amount due required by this
Chapter to be made, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.270   Extension of Time.

The Tax Administrator, for good cause, may extend for not to exceed one
(1) month the time for making any return or paying any amount required
to be paid under this Chapter. The extension may be granted at any time,
provided a request therefore is filed with the Tax Administrator within
or prior to the period for which the extension may be granted. Any
person to whom an extension is granted shall pay, in addition to the
tax, interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month or fraction
thereof, from the date on which the tax would have been due without the
extension until the date of payment.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.280   Divulging of Information Forbidden.

It is unlawful for any person having an administrative duty under this
Chapter to make known in any manner whatever the business affairs,
operations or information obtained by an investigation of the records of
any operator or any other person visited or examined in the discharge of
official duty, or the amount or source of income, profits, losses,
expenditures or any particular thereof, set forth or disclosed in any
return, or to knowingly permit any return or copy thereof or any
abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person.
Successors, receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assignees
and guarantors, if directly interested, may be given information as to
the items included in the amounts of any unpaid tax or amounts of tax,
penalties and interest required to be collected.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.40.290   Agreement with County.

The City is empowered to enter into a joint powers agreement with other
cities and the County of San Bernardino, and if such agreement or
agreements can be made wherein central collection for the County of San
Bernardino is provided, then it shall be done upon approval by the City
Council.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 3.45
SALES AND USE TAX

Sections:

   3.45.010   Short Title

   3.45.020   Rate

   3.45.030   Operative Date

   3.45.040   Purpose

   3.45.050   Contract with State

   3.45.060   Sales Tax

   3.45.070   Place of Sale

   3.45.080   Use Tax

   3.45.090   Adoption of Provisions of State Law

   3.45.100   Limitations on Adoption of State Law

3.45.010   Short Title.

This Chapter shall be known as the “Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Ordinance.”

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.45.020   Rate.

The rate of sales tax and use tax imposed by this Chapter shall be one
percent (1%).

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.45.030   Operative Date.

The ordinance adopting the Sales and Use Tax set forth in this Chapter
was operative on January 1, 1976. [Ord. No. 1, amended by Ord. No. 76,
amended by Ord. No. 102, amended by Ord. No. 177.] The sales and use tax
adopted thereby is incorporated herein in full by reference to those
ordinances.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.45.040   Purpose.

The City Council declares that this Chapter is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof
be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

   A.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

   B.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State
of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

   C.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by
the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully
as practicable to and requires the least possible deviation from the
existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California
State Sales and Use Taxes.

   D.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which can be administered
in a manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting City sales and use taxes and at the same
time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.45.050   Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, this City shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this Chapter, provided, that if this
City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract rather than
the first day of the first calendar quarter following the adoption of
this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.45.060   Sales Tax.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax
is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the City at the rate stated in
Section 3.45.020 of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail in this City on and after
the operative date.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.45.070   Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at
the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In
the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one (1) place of business, the place or places at which
the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under the rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.45.080   Use Tax.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption
in this City of tangible personal property purchased for any retailer on
and after the operative date for storage, use or other consumption in
this City at the rate stated in Section 3.45.020 of the sales price of
the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to State sales or use tax regardless of the place to
which delivery is made.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.45.090   Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and except insofar as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of
this Chapter as though fully set forth herein.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.45.100   Limitations on Adoption of State Law.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, wherever the State of California is named or referred to
as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted
therefor. The substitution, however, shall not be made when the word
“State” is used as part of the title of the State Controller, the State
Treasurer, the State Board of Control, the State Board of Equalization,
the State Treasury or the Constitution of the State of California; the
substitution shall not be made when the result of that substitution
would require action to be taken by or against the City, or any agency
thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this Chapter; the substitution shall not be made in those Sections,
including, but not necessarily limited to, Sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to provide an exemption from this tax with respect
to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such
sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or to impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not be subject to tax by the State under said provisions of that
Code; the substitution shall not be made in Sections 6701, 6702 (except
in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code; and the substitution shall not be made for
the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this
State” in Section 6203 or in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 3.50
ELECTION BY ALL-MAILED BALLOT PROCEDURES FOR COMMUNITY FACILITIES
DISTRICTS

Sections:

   3.50.010   Election Procedures

   3.50.020   Exceptions

3.50.010   Election Procedures.

The election procedures to be followed in conducting any special
election by all-mailed ballot approving a special tax pursuant to the
Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982, as amended (the “Act”)
shall be as follows:

   A.   The special election shall be conducted by the City Clerk of the
City, as the elections official, and shall be held on a date selected by
the Council.

   B.   The City Clerk shall publish a resolution calling a special
election within ten (10) days of its adoption in a newspaper of general
circulation published in the area of the community facilities district
(“CFD”).

   C.   The ballots for the special election shall be distributed to the
qualified electors of the CFD by first-class United States mail with
return postage prepaid.

   D.   The City Clerk shall mail to each qualified elector an official
ballot in a form adopted by the Council in the resolution calling the
special election and shall also mail to all such qualified electors a
ballot pamphlet and instructions to the voters, arguments for or against
the propositions and rebuttals, if any, received in response to the
resolution calling the special election, which shall provide that
written arguments not to exceed three hundred (300) words in length for
or against the proposition(s) shall be filed with the City Clerk by the
designated date and time, and a return identification envelope.

      1.   The City Clerk shall not commence to mail the ballots to the
qualified electors prior to the twenty-ninth (29th) day before the
election and shall complete the mailing by the tenth (10th) day before
the election.

      2.   The return identification envelope used in landowner
elections shall contain the following substantially in the form (Exhibit
A) attached to Ordinance No. 343:

         a.   The name of the landowner.

         b.   The address of the landowner.

         c.   A declaration, under penalty of perjury, stating that the
voter is the owner of record or the authorized representative of the
landowner entitled to vote and is the person whose name appears on the
identification envelope.

         d.   The printed name and signature of the voter.

         e.   The address of the voter.

         f.   The date of signing and place of execution of the
declaration described in Subsection c. above.

         g.   A notice that the envelope contains an official ballot and
is to be opened only by the canvassing board.

      3.   Otherwise, the return identification envelope shall contain
the following:

         a.   A declaration, under penalty of perjury, stating that the
voter resides within the precinct in which he or she is voting and is
the person whose name appears on the envelope.

         b.   The signature of the voter.

         c.   The residence address of the voter as shown on the
affidavit of registration.

         d.   The date of signing.

         e.    A notice that the envelope contains an official ballot
and is to be opened only by the canvassing board.

   E.   Upon completion of the mailing, the City Clerk shall certify the
proper mailing of the ballots by an affidavit.

   F.   The information on the ballots to be mailed by the City Clerk
shall inform the qualified electors that the official ballots shall be
returned to the City Clerk properly voted as provided thereon in the
sealed return identification envelope(s) with the certification(s)
therein completed and signed and all other information to be inserted
therein properly inserted by 5:00 p.m. on the date of the election.

   G.   Upon receipt of the return identification envelope(s) which are
returned prior to the voting deadline, the City Clerk shall maintain the
envefope(s) in a safe place.

   H.   Upon the closing of the election, the City Clerk shall canvass
the votes as follows:

      1.   The City Clerk shall appoint a special canvassing board of
three (3) persons not employed by the City. The opening, processing and
counting of the ballots shall be open to the public. Any interested
party may challenge the.manner in which the ballots are processed and
counted. If the challenge is not resolved at the time the challenge is
made, the canvassing will cease until the Council hears the challenge
and renders a decision. The City Clerk shall pay a reasonable
compensation to each member of the special canvassing board.

      2.   Upon completion of the canvassing, the City Clerk shall file
a statement with the Council at its next regular or special meeting as
to the results of such canvass and the election on the proposition(s)
set forth in the official ballot.

   I.   The procedures set forth in this Section for conducting any
special election by all-mailed ballot may be modified as the Council may
determine to be necessary or desirable by an ordinance subsequently
adopted by the Council.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.50.020   Exceptions.

Except for provisions concerning elections procedures, this Chapter
shall not affect the applicability of any of the provisions of the
Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982, Title 5, Chapter 2.5
(commencing with Section 53311) of the Government Code.

[Ord. No. 343; Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 3.55
FEE AND SERVICE CHARGE REVENUE/COST COMPARISON SYSTEM

Sections:

   3.55.010   Findings and Intent

   3.55.020   Delegation of Authority and Direction to City Manager

   3.55.030   “Costs Reasonably Borne” Defined

   3.55.040   Schedule of Fees and Service Charges

   3.55.050   Provision of Data

   3.55.060   Appeal to City Council

   3.55.070   Adopting Fee Schedule for Fire Prevention and Inspection
Services; Appointing Fire Marshal

   3.55.080   Payment of Prevailing Wages on Certain Public Works
Projects

3.55.010   Findings and Intent.

   A.   Pursuant to Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, it is
the intent of the City Council to require the ascertainment and recovery
of costs reasonably borne from fees, charges and regulatory license fees
levied therefore in providing the regulation, products or services
provided by the City.

   B.   The fees and service charge revenue/cost comparison system set
forth in this Chapter provides a mechanism for ensuring that fees
adopted by the City for services rendered do not exceed the reasonable
estimated cost for providing the services for which the fees are
charged.

   C.   The adoption of this Chapter is exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code Sections 21000 et
seq.), because it approves and sets forth a procedure for determining
fees for the purpose of meeting the operating expenses of City
departments, as set forth in Public Resources Code Section
20180(b)(8)(1).

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.55.020   Delegation of Authority and Direction to City Manager.

   A.   The City Manager is delegated the authority and directed to
provide documents to the City Council to implement its herein enumerated
policy to adjust fees and charges to recover the percentage of costs
reasonably borne as established by resolution of the City Council, in
providing the regulation, product or sen/ice enumerated in this Chapter
in the percentage of costs reasonably borne and on the schedule of rate
review and revision as hereinafter established in this Chapter.

   B.   The City Manager is delegated authority to issue executive
orders defining terms, setting out administrative fee collection and
financial procedures, definitions and establishing effective dates of
all fees set by the City Council by resolution. The City Manager shall
provide for effective dates for fees set by the City Council which are
as early as is practically feasible considering administrative
impediments. All executive orders shall be originated and signed by the
affected department head, shall be signed by the Finance Director
certifying that the financial requirements of this Chapter are complied
with, and shall be signed by the City Manager connoting the effective
date of the executive order and new or revised rate structure, procedure
or definition.

   C.   “Costs Reasonably Borne” shall be as defined in Section
3.55.030. In adjusting fees and charges, the City Manager shall act in
an administrative and ministerial capacity and shall consider only the
standards and criteria established by this Chapter and the procedures
set hereby and by applicable State law. All executive orders issued
hereunder shall comply in all respects with this Chapter and the several
schedules of fees and rates as set by the City Council by resolution.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.55.030   “Costs Reasonably Borne” Defined.

“Costs Reasonably Borne,” as used and ordered to be applied in this
Chapter, are to consist of the following elements:

   A.   All applicable direct costs including, but not limited to
salaries, wages, overtime, employee fringe benefits, services and
supplies, maintenance and operation expenses, contracted services,
special supplies and any other direct expense incurred;

   B.   All applicable indirect costs including, but not restricted to
building maintenance and operations, communications expenses, computer
costs, printing and reproduction, vehicle expenses, insurance, debt
service and like expenses when distributed on an accounted and
documented rational proration system;

   C.   Fixed asset recovery expenses, consisting of depreciation of
fixed assets, and additional fixed asset expense recovery charges
calculated on the current estimated cost of replacement, divided by the
approximate life expectancy of the fixed asset. A further additional
charge to make up the difference between book value depreciation not
previously recovered and reserved in cash and the full cost of
replacement also shall be calculated and considered a cost so as to
recover such unrecovered costs between book value and cost of
replacement over the remaining life of the asset;

   D.   General overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and
charging the expenses of the City Council, City Attorney, City
Administration, City Clerk, City Treasurer, economic development,
finance department, personnel office and City promotion, and all other
staff and support service provided to the entire City organization.
Overhead shall be prorated between tax-financed services and
fee-financed services on the basis of said percentage so that each of
taxes and fees and charges shall proportionately defray such overhead
costs;

   E.   Departmental overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing
and charging the cost of each department head and his or her supporting
expenses as enumerated in Subsections A., B., C. and F. of this Section;

   F.   Debt service costs, consisting of repayment of principal,
payment of interest and trustee fees and administrative expenses for all
applicable bond, certificate, note or securities issued or loans of
whatever nature or kind. Any required coverage factors or required or
established reserves beyond basic debt service costs also shall be
considered a cost if required by covenant within any securities
ordinance, resolution, indenture or general law applicable to the City.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.55.040   Schedule of Fees and Service Charges.

The City Manager, Finance Director and each City department head, under
the direction of the City Manager, shall review annually the fees and
service charges of the City, and provide an adjusted fee or charge
schedule to the City Council for its consideration so as to recover the
listed percentage of costs reasonably borne necessary to provide the
listed regulation, product or service.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.55.050   Provision of Data.

Pursuant to the Government Code, at least ten (10) days prior to the
required public hearing set out herein, the City Manager shall make
available to the public appropriate data indicating the cost or
estimated cost required to support the fees and charges for which
changes are proposed to be made or fees or charges imposed. The City
Manager also shall provide a summary of the present fee and charge
schedules and those proposed at such annual public hearing. A general
explanation of such changes also shall be published pursuant to the
requirements of Government Code Section 6062a.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.55.060   Appeal to City Council.

   A.   Any person who believes that any fee or charge determined and
set is in excess of the percentage of costs reasonably borne to be
recovered as set out in this Chapter, or that such fee or charge has
been reviewed prior to or has not been reviewed within the review
schedule as set out herein, may appeal in writing to the City Council.

   B.   No fee or charge for which an appeal has been filed shall take
effect until heard by the City Council. Such appeal shall be placed on
the agenda of the next following Council meeting after receipt of such
appeal and heard at the next following Council meeting thereafter. Such
appealed fee or charge shall take effect immediately upon hearing by the
City Council unless ordered otherwise by the City Council by ordinance
amending this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.55.070   Adopting Fee Schedule for Fire Prevention and Inspection
Services; Appointing Fire Marshal.

   A.   The fee schedule for Fire Prevention and inspection Sen/ices,
which shall be collected by the City for primary fire prevention and
reporting services provided by the San Bernardino County Fire Department
under contract to the City, shall be established by resolution of the
City Council. Such services include, but are not limited to, the
following:

      1.   Plan checks on commercial developments in accordance with all
adopted codes and ordinances and associated fees;

      2.   Life Safety inspections, conducted annually on commercial
occupancies and for the determination of the frequency of inspections in
high hazard occupancies; and

      3.   Fire prevention activities, fire inspections and plan
reviews.

   B.   In adopting this Section, the City Council has found and
determined that the Fire Prevention and Inspection Services fees
established herein represent the actual cost to the City of providing
the services, administering the Fire Prevention and Inspection Services
program and collecting and ensuring the appropriate allocation of the
fees collected.

   C.   The Fire Marshal of the San Bernardino County Fire Department is
appointed the Fire Marshal for the City of Adelanto.

[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

3.55.080   Payment of Prevailing Wages on Certain Public Works Projects.

   A.   Contracts for public works projects, as defined in California
Labor Code Sections 1720 et seq., that are undertaken or contracted for
directly by the City shall require compliance with California Labor Code
Sections 1770 through 1782, as may be amended, for construction work
over $25,000 and for alteration, demolition, repair or maintenance work
over $15,000. Any notice inviting bids for such public works projects
shall include notification of the provisions of this section.

[Ord. No. 396; Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07; Ord. No. 526, Section 2,
6/11/14.]

Chapter 3.60
CANNABIS EXCISE TAX

Sections:

   3.60.010   Definitions

   3.60.020   Purpose of tax

   3.60.030   Imposition of tax

   3.60.040   Payment obligation

   3.60.050   City Council authorization to adjust tax rate and/or
methodology

   3.60.060   Payment of tax does not authorize illegal activity

   3.60.070   Cannabis business tax is not a sales tax

   3.60.080   Amendments and administration

   3.60.090   Returns and remittances

   3.60.100   Failure to pay tax

   3.60.110   Refunds

   3.60.120   Enforcement

   3.60.130   Debts, deficiencies, and assessments

   3.60.140   Appeals

   3.60.150   No injunction/writ of mandate

   3.60.160   Future amendment to cited statute

3.60.010 Definitions.

   For purposes of this chapter:

   A.   "Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa
Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or Cannabis rudevalis, whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted
from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin.
“Cannabis” also means the separated resin, whether crude or purified,
obtained from cannabis, “Cannabis” also means the term as defined in
California Health and Safety Code Section 11018 and is not limited to
medical cannabis. “Cannabis” does not include the mature stalks of the
plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted
therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake or the sterilized seed of the plant
which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this chapter,
“Cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section 11018.5
of the California Health and Safety Code.

   B.   “Cannabis business” means any business, organization or
facility, regardless of form, whether operating for profit or not for
profit, that cultivates, processes, stores, tests, packages, labels,
distributes, transports, and/or sells, dispenses or delivers cannabis,
cannabis products and/or devices for the use of cannabis or cannabis
products. “Cannabis business” does not include personal medical or adult
use cannabis cultivation authorized by state law and this Code. A
cannabis business shall not be considered to be a religious, social or
charitable organization exempt from the payment of business taxes under
this chapter.

   C.   “Cannabis cultivation” means the seeding, planting, watering,
warming, cooling, growing, harvesting, drying, curing, grading or
trimming of cannabis.

   D.   “Cannabis distribution” or “Cannabis transport” means any
activity involving the commercial procurement, sale, transfer and/or
transport of cannabis and cannabis products from one cannabis business
to another cannabis business for purposes authorized pursuant to state
law.

   E.   “Cannabis nursery” means a cannabis business that produces only
clones, immature plants, seeds and other agricultural products used
specifically for cannabis cultivation.

   F.   “Cannabis processing” shall mean any activity involving the
holding, storing, sorting, preparation, labeling and packaging of raw
cannabis for retail sale; or involving the production, preparation,
propagation, labeling, packaging or compounding of cannabis products
either directly or indirectly or by extraction methods, or independently
by means of chemical synthesis.

   G.   “Cannabis product” means cannabis that has undergone a process
whereby the raw agricultural product has been transformed into a
concentrate, an edible product, or a topical product. “Cannabis product”
also means cannabis products as defined by California Health and Safety
Code Section 11018.1 and is not limited to medical cannabis products.

   H.   “Cannabis Retail or Sale” means and includes any sale, exchange,
or barter transaction whereby, for any consideration, title to cannabis
or cannabis products is transferred from a cannabis business to a retail
end customer and includes the delivery of cannabis or cannabis products
to a retail end customer pursuant to an order placed for the purchase of
the same and soliciting or receiving an order for the same. It does not
include the return of cannabis or cannabis products by a cannabis
business to the cannabis business from whom the cannabis or cannabis
product was purchased.

   I.   “Cannabis testing” means any activity involving the testing of
cannabis or cannabis products by a facility that is both of the
following:

      1.   Accredited by an accrediting body that is independent from
all other persons involved in the cannabis industry in the state; and

      2.   Registered with the California State Department of Public
Health.

   J.   “Engaged in a cannabis business” means the commencing,
conducting, operating, managing or carrying on of a cannabis business
and the exercise of corporate, franchise or other business powers,
whether done as owner, or by means of an officer, agent, manager,
employee, or other representative, within the city, whether operating
from a fixed location within the city or coming into the city from an
outside location to engage in cannabis business activities. By way of
example, a person shall be deemed “engaged in cannabis business” within
the city if such person or the person's officer, agent, manager,
employee, or other representative acting on behalf of such person:

      1.   Maintains a fixed place of cannabis business within the city;

      2.   Owns, leases or otherwise has the legal right to occupy real
property within the city for cannabis business purposes;

      3.   Regularly maintains a stock of tangible personal property
within the city in the ordinary course of cannabis business;

      4.   Performs work or renders cannabis business services to other
cannabis businesses or to retail cannabis customers located within the
city.

   K.   “Gross receipts” means, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, the total amount of monetary consideration actually received or
receivable by a cannabis business for performance of any act or service
in providing, at wholesale or retail, cannabis and/or cannabis products,
for which a charge is made or credit allowed including, but not limited
to: membership dues, the value of monetary and in-kind contributions,
payments, reimbursement of fees for cultivation, processing,
distribution, delivery, retail, storing, exchanging, processing,
delivering, making available, or transmitting of cannabis or cannabis
products, any payments made, and anything else of value obtained by a
cannabis business. Included in “gross receipts” shall be all receipts,
cash, credits, and property of any kind without deduction of the cost of
the property sold, the cost of the materials used, labor or service
costs, interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever.
Gross receipts shall not include the following:

      1.   Cash discounts where allowed and taken on sales;

      2.   Sales or other applicable state or local tax required by law
to be added to the purchase price of cannabis or cannabis products and
collected from the purchaser;

      3.   Such part of the sales price of any property returned by
purchasers to the seller as refunded by the seller by way of cash or
credit allowances or return of refundable deposits previously included
in gross receipts; or

      4.   Whenever there are included within gross receipts amounts
which reflect sales for which credit is extended and such amount proved
uncollectable in a subsequent year, those amounts may be excluded from
gross receipts in the year they prove to be uncollectable, provided,
however, if all or any portion of such amounts excluded as uncollectible
are subsequently collected they shall be included in gross receipt for
the period when they are recovered.

   L.   “Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate
or any other group or combination acting as a unit, which is conducting
itself as a cannabis business.

   M.   “Space utilized in connection with cannabis cultivation or
nursery” means any space or ground, floor or other surface area, whether
horizontal or vertical (i.e., “stacking”) which is used for either a
cannabis nursery and/or cultivation, or any combination of those
activities, as well as for sorting or storing of any cannabis, products,
supplies or equipment related to any such activities, no matter where
such storage may take place or such storage space may be located.

   N.   “State” means the State of California.

   O.   “Tax Administrator” is the city's Director of Finance, or his or
her designee.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.020 Purpose of tax.

This tax is a general tax, the revenues from which may be used for
general City services.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.030 Imposition of tax.

   A.   Every person engaged in a cannabis business within the City of
Adelanto, and regardless of whether such business has a permit to
operate pursuant to the Adelanto Municipal Code, shall pay a cannabis
business tax at the following rates:

      1.   Up to a maximum of $5 per square foot of space utilized in
connection with cannabis cultivation or nursery, subject to adjustment
by the City Council pursuant to Section 3.60.050; and

      2.   Up to a maximum of 5 percent of gross receipts or fractional
part thereof, generated by any other cannabis business (including but
not limited to cannabis processing, testing, distribution, retail, sale
or delivery), subject to adjustment by the City Council pursuant to
Section 3.60.050.

   B.   The City Council hereby adjusts the maximum tax rate imposed by
Ordinance No. 601 and imposes the following rates:

 

  ---------------------------- ------------------------
  Cannabis Business Activity   Monthly Tax Rate
  Cultivation                  $0.415 per square foot
  Retail                       3% of gross receipts
  Special Events               3% of gross receipts
  Manufacturing                3% of gross receipts
  Testing                      3% of gross receipts
  Distribution                 3% of gross receipts
  ---------------------------- ------------------------

 

   C.   No cannabis business shall be deemed to be exempt from the
payment of the taxes identified above by any other provision of this
Code, unless expressly exempted under this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18; Ord. No. 601, Section 2, 5/8/19;
Ord. No. 616, Section 2, 9/9/20.]

3.60.040 Payment obligation.

All taxpayers subject to this Chapter must pay the full tax imposed by
this Chapter regardless of any rebate, exemption, incentive, or other
reduction set forth elsewhere in this Code, except as required by
California or Federal law. Failure to pay the tax shall be subject to
penalties, interest charges, and assessments as the City Council may
establish and the City may use any or all other code enforcement
remedies provided in this Code. No provision in this Code can lower the
tax rate set forth in this Chapter or otherwise reduce the amount of
taxes paid hereunder unless the provision specifically states that the
reduction applies.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.050 City Council authorization to adjust tax rate and/or
methodology.

This Chapter authorizes the maximum business tax rate as identified in
Section 3.60.030 above. The City Council may, by ordinance, upwardly or
downwardly adjust the rate of the tax imposed by this Chapter and may
otherwise repeal or amend this Chapter without a vote of the people.
However, as required by California Constitution Article XIIIC
(Proposition 218), voter approval is required for any amendment that
would increase the maximum rate or methodology of any tax levied
pursuant to this Chapter. The People of the City of Adelanto affirm that
the following actions shall not constitute an increase of the maximum
rate or methodology of the tax requiring subsequent voter approval:

   A.   The upward adjustment of the tax rate applicable to any or all
classes of cannabis business, provided the rate does not exceed the
maximum set forth by this voter-approved Chapter;

   B.   The restoration of the tax to a rate that is no higher than the
maximum set by this voter-approved Chapter, if the City Council has
previously acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

   C.   An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the
tax, or any definition applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation
or clarification (even if contrary to some prior interpretation or
clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of this Chapter;

   D.   The establishment of a class of person or service that is exempt
or excepted from the tax or the discontinuation of any such exemption or
exception; and

   E.   Resuming collection of the tax imposed by this Chapter, even if
the City had, for some period of time, either suspended collection of
the tax or otherwise failed to collect the tax, in whole or in part.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.060 Payment of tax does not authorize illegal activity.

The payment of the tax required pursuant to this Chapter shall not be
construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal
business or of a legal business in an illegal manner. Nothing in this
Chapter implies or authorizes that any activity connected with the
distribution or possession of cannabis is legal unless otherwise
authorized and allowed in strict and full conformance to the provisions
of state law and this Code.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.070 Cannabis business tax is not a sales tax.

The tax provided for under the provisions of this Chapter is not a
sales, transactions or use tax and shall not be calculated or assessed
as such. The tax established under this Chapter shall not be separately
identified or otherwise specifically assessed or charged to any customer
or client of a cannabis business.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.080 Amendments and administration.

   A.   This Chapter was submitted to the voters for approval. Any
amendment to this Chapter to increase the tax above the maximum rate
expressly provided in Section 3.60.030 shall not become effective until
such amendment is approved by the voters. The voters expressly authorize
the City Council to amend, modify, change, or revise any other provision
of this Chapter as the City Council deems in the best interest of the
City, as set forth in Section 3.60.050.

   B.   The Tax Administrator shall promulgate rules, regulations and
procedures to implement and administer this Chapter to ensure the
efficient and timely collection of the tax imposed by this Chapter,
including without limitation, formulation and implementation of
penalties and interest to be assessed for failure to pay the tax as
provided.

   C.   The Tax Administrator shall annually audit the taxes imposed by
this Chapter to verify that tax revenues have been properly expended in
accordance with the law.

   D.   Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the
appropriation limit for the City is increased to the maximum extent over
the maximum period of time allowed under law consistent with the
revenues generated by the tax established by this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.090 Returns and remittances.

The Tax shall be due and payable as follows:

   A.   The tax established by this Chapter shall be collected four (4)
times a year on a quarterly basis. Each person owing tax shall prepare
and file a tax return to the Tax Administrator setting out the total
amount of tax owed for the preceding reporting period during which the
tax was in effect. The return shall be filed by the end of the month
following the applicable reporting period, in accordance with the
following table, or as otherwise provided for by the Tax Administrator.
At the time the tax return is filed, the full amount of the tax owed for
the preceding reporting period shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator.

 

  -------------------- ----------------- ------------
  Reporting Period     Period End Date   Due Date
  January – March      March 31          April 30
  April – June         June 30           July 31
  July – September     September 30      October 31
  October – December   December 31       January 31
  -------------------- ----------------- ------------

 

   B.   All tax returns shall be completed on forms provided by the Tax
Administrator.

   C.   Tax returns and payments for all outstanding taxes owed the City
are immediately due to the Tax Administrator within 15 days after
cessation of business for any reason.

   D.   Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other
communication received by the Tax Administrator is received after the
time prescribed by this Section for the receipt thereof, but is in an
envelope bearing a postmark showing that it was mailed on or prior to
the date prescribed in this Section for the receipt thereof, or whenever
the Tax Administrator is furnished substantial proof that the payment,
statement, report, request, or other communication was in fact deposited
in the United States mail on or prior to the date prescribed for receipt
thereof, the Tax Administrator may regard such payment, statement,
report, request, or other communication as having been timely received.
If the due date falls on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday, the due
date shall be the next regular business day on which the City Hall is
open to the public.

   E.   Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of
this Chapter, the taxes required to be paid pursuant to this Chapter
shall be deemed delinquent if not paid on or before the due date
specified in Subsection (A) of this Section.

   F.   The Tax Administrator is not required to send a delinquency or
other notice or bill to any person subject to the provisions of this
Chapter and failure to send such notice or bill shall not affect the
validity of any tax or penalty due under the provisions of this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18; Ord. No. 616, Section 3, 9/9/20.]

3.60.100 Failure to pay tax.

   A.   Any person who fails or refuses to pay any tax required to be
paid pursuant to this Chapter on or before the due date shall pay
penalties and interest as follows:

      1.   A penalty equal to 25 percent of the amount of the tax in
addition to the amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax
calculated from the due date of the tax at a rate established by
resolution of the City Council; and

      2.   An additional penalty equal to 25 percent of the amount of
the tax if the tax remains unpaid for a period exceeding one calendar
month beyond the due date, plus interest on the unpaid tax and interest
on the unpaid penalties calculated at the rate established by resolution
of the City Council.

   B.   Whenever a check is submitted in payment of a tax and the check
is subsequently returned unpaid by the bank upon which the check is
drawn, and the check is not redeemed prior to the due date, the taxpayer
will be liable for the tax amount due plus penalties and interest as
provided for in this Section plus any amount allowed under State law.

   C.   The tax due shall be that amount due and payable from January 1,
2019 or the first date on which the cannabis business first engaged in
business in the City, whichever date occurred last, together with
applicable penalties and interest calculated in accordance with
Subsection (A) of this Section.

   D.   The Tax Administrator may waive the first and second penalties
of 25 percent each imposed upon any person if:

      1.   The person provides evidence satisfactory to the Tax
Administrator that failure to pay timely was due to circumstances beyond
the control of the person and occurred notwithstanding the exercise of
ordinary care and the absence of willful neglect, and the person paid
the delinquent tax and accrued interest owed the City prior to applying
to the Tax Administrator for a waiver.

      2.   The waiver provisions specified in this Subsection shall not
apply to interest accrued on the delinquent tax and a waiver shall be
granted only once during any 24 month period.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.110 Refunds.

   A.   No refund shall be made of any tax collected pursuant to this
Chapter, except as provided in this Section.

   B.   No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this Chapter shall be
made because of the discontinuation, dissolution, or other termination
of a cannabis business.

   C.   Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been
overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the City under this Chapter, such amount may be
refunded to the person who paid the tax provided that a written claim
for refund is timely filed with the City, pursuant to this Code. The
period for filing a claim for refund shall be one year from the time the
tax was paid or erroneously or illegally collected; provided however,
that in no event shall the period to file such claim expire prior to the
shortest period allowable for filing a tax refund claim under Government
Code Section 911.2. Such claim must clearly establish claimant's right
to the refund by written records showing entitlement thereto, and must
clearly set forth the facts and legal theories under which the claimant
believes he or she has right to a refund. Where the amount of any
individual refund claim is in excess of the amount set by ordinance or
resolution of the City Council relating to the settlement of general
liability claims against the City by the City Manager, City Council
approval shall be required.

   D.   The filing of a written claim pursuant to Government Code
Section 935 is a prerequisite to any suit thereon.

   E.   The Tax Administrator shall have the right to examine and audit
all the books and business records of the claimant in order to determine
the eligibility of the claimant to the claimed refund. No claim for
refund shall be allowed if the claimant refuses to allow such
examination of claimant's books and business records after request by
the Tax Administrator to do so.

   F.   Any person entitled to a refund of taxes paid pursuant to this
Chapter may elect in writing to have such refund applied as a credit
against a cannabis business's taxes for the next calendar quarter.

   G.   In the event that the tax was erroneously paid and the error is
attributable to the City, the amount of the tax erroneously paid shall
be refunded to the claimant. If the error is attributable to the
claimant, the City shall retain the amount set forth in this Chapter
from the amount to be refunded to cover expenses.

   H.   The Tax Administrator shall initiate a refund of any tax which
has been overpaid or erroneously collected whenever the overpayment or
erroneous collection is uncovered by a City audit of tax revenues.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.120 Enforcement.

   A.   It shall be the duty of the Tax Administrator to enforce each
and all of the provisions of this Chapter.

   B.   For purposes of administration and enforcement of this Chapter
generally, the Tax Administrator, with the concurrence of the City
Attorney, may from time to time promulgate administrative rules and
regulations.

   C.   The Tax Administrator shall have the power to audit and examine
all books and records of cannabis businesses as well as persons engaged
in the operation of cannabis businesses, including both state and
federal income tax returns, California sales tax returns, or other
evidence documenting the gross receipts of or the transaction prices
charged by a cannabis business or persons engaged in the operation of a
cannabis business, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of tax, if
any, required to be paid by the provisions of this Chapter, and for the
purpose of verifying any statements or any item thereof when filed by
any person pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. If such cannabis
business or person, after written demand by the Tax Administrator,
refuses to make available for audit, examination or verification such
books, records, or equipment as the Tax Administrator requests, the Tax
Administrator may, after full consideration of all information within
the Tax Administrator's knowledge concerning the cannabis business and
its business and activities of the person so refusing, make an
assessment in the manner provided in Section 3.60.130.

   D.   The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay
the required tax shall not excuse or exempt such person from any civil
action for the tax debt unpaid at the time of such conviction. No civil
action shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the
provisions of this Chapter or of any State law requiring the payment of
all taxes.

   E.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter or
any regulation or rule passed in accordance herewith, or knowingly or
intentionally misrepresenting to any officer or employee of the City any
material fact in procuring the a cannabis business certificate or permit
from the City shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.130 Debts, deficiencies, and assessments.

   A.   The amount of any tax, penalties, and interest imposed by the
provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City and any
person operating a cannabis business without having paid any applicable
tax, penalties, and interest shall be liable in an action in the name of
the City in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the
tax, and penalties and interest imposed on such cannabis business.

   B.   If the Tax Administrator is not satisfied that any statement
filed as required under the provisions of this Chapter is correct, or
that the amount of tax is correctly computed, the Tax Administrator may
compute and determine the amount to be paid and make a deficiency
determination upon the basis of the facts contained in the statement or
upon the basis of any information in his or her possession or that may
come into his or her possession. One or more deficiency determinations
of the amount of tax due for a period or periods may be made. When a
person discontinues engaging in a cannabis business, a deficiency
determination may be made at any time within three years thereafter as
to any liability arising from engaging in such business whether or not a
deficiency determination is issued prior to the date the tax would
otherwise be due. Whenever a deficiency determination is made, notice
shall be given to the person concerned in the same manner as notices of
assessment are given under Subsections (C), (D), and (E) of this
Section.

   C.   Under any of the following circumstances, the Tax Administrator
may make and give notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a
person under this Chapter:

      1.   If the person has not filed any statement or return required
under the provisions of this Chapter;

      2.   If the person has not paid any tax due under the provisions
of this Chapter;

      3.   If the person has not, after demand by the Tax Administrator,
filed a corrected statement or return, or furnished to the Tax
Administrator adequate substantiation of the information contained in a
statement or return already filed, or paid any additional amount of tax
due under the provisions of this Chapter;

      4.   If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment of
any tax due under this Chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of 25 percent
of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to penalties
and interest. otherwise stated in this Chapter.

      5.   The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the
amount of any tax known by the Tax Administrator to be due or estimated
by the Tax Administrator, after consideration of all information within
the Tax Administrator's knowledge concerning the business and activities
of the person assessed, to be due under each applicable section of this
Chapter, and shall include the amount of any penalties or interest
accrued on each amount to the date of the notice of assessment.

   D.   The notice of assessment shall be served upon the person either
by handing it to him or her personally, or by a deposit of the notice in
the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the person
at the address of the location of the cannabis business appearing on the
face of the business license issued under this Code, or to such other
address as he or she shall register with the Tax Administrator for the
purpose of receiving notices provided under this Chapter; or, should the
person have no business license issued and should the person have no
address registered with the Tax Administrator for such purpose, then to
such person's last known address. For the purposes of this section, a
service by mail is complete at the time of deposit in the United States
mail.

   E.   Within ten calendar days after the date of service the person
may apply in wilting to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the
assessment. If application for a hearing before the City is not made
within the time herein prescribed, the tax assessed by the Tax
Administrator shall become final and conclusive.

   F.   If the person requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator shall
cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall be held within 30
calendar days after receipt of the written request for hearing. Notice
of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax
Administrator to such person at least ten calendar days prior to the
hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator desires said person to produce
specific records at such hearing, such notice may designate the records
requested to be produced.

   G.   At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall
hear all relevant testimony and evidence, including that of any other
interested parties. At the discretion of the Tax Administrator, the
hearing may be continued from time to time for the purpose of allowing
the presentation of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time
following the conclusion of the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall
issue a final assessment (or non-assessment), by confirming, modifying
or rejecting the original deficiency determination, and shall mail a
copy of such final assessment to the person owing the tax. The decision
of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section 3.60.140 of
this Chapter,

   H.   Unless appealed, payment of the final assessment shall become
delinquent if not received by the Tax Administrator on or before the
thirtieth calendar day following the date of receipt of the notice of
fmal assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be at the rates set
forth herein, along with interest at the rate as set forth by resolution
of the City Council, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties,
from the date of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of
limitations regarding a claim by the City seeking payment of a tax
assessed under this Section shall commence from the date of delinquency
as provided in this subsection.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.140 Appeals.

   A.   The provisions of this section apply to any deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator. Any person aggrieved by any decision, deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator, shall be required to comply with the appeals procedure of
this section. Compliance with this section shall be a prerequisite to a
suit thereon. [See Government Code Section 935(b).]

   B.   If any person is aggrieved by any deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator; he or she
may appeal to the City Manager by filing a notice of appeal with the
City Clerk within ten calendar days of the date of the deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator which aggrieved the person.

   C.   If the person requests an appeal, the City Clerk shall cause the
matter to be set for hearing, which shall be held within 30 calendar
days after receipt of the written request for appeal. Notice of the time
and place of the appeal hearing shall be mailed by the City Clerk to
such person at least ten calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the
City Manager desires said person to produce specific records at such
hearing, such notice may designate the records requested to be produced.
For the purposes of this section, a service by mail is complete at the
time of deposit in the United States mail.

   D.   At the time fixed for the hearing, the City Manager shall hear
all relevant testimony and evidence, de novo, including that of any
other interested parties. At the discretion of the City Manager, the
hearing may be continued from time to time for the purpose of allowing
the presentation of additional evidence, Within a reasonable time
following the conclusion of the hearing, the City Manager shall issue a
final decision confirming, modifying or rejecting the Tax
Administrator's deficiency determination, and shall mail a copy of such
final decision to the person owing the tax. The City Manager's decision
shall be final and subject only to judicial review shall be pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6. Payment of the final
assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) calendar day following
the date of receipt of the City Manager's decision.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.150 No injunction/writ of mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process
shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this
City or against any officer of the City to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax required
to be collected and/or remitted.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

3.60.160   Future amendment to cited statute.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or
Federal statute in this Chapter shall mean such statute as it may be
amended from time to time; provided, that such reference to a statute
herein shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto, or to any
subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a state or Federal agency
or court of law, to the extent that such amendment or change of
interpretation would require voter approval under California law, or to
the extent that such change would result in a tax decrease. Only to the
extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a tax decrease
would result, the prior version of the statute (or interpretation) shall
remain applicable. For any application or situation that would not
require voter approval or would not result in a decrease of a tax,
provisions of the amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be
applicable to the maximum possible extent To the extent that the City's
authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under this Chapter is
expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or Federal law, no
amendment or modification of this Chapter shall be required to conform
the tax to those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to
the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount of the tax
imposed under this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]

TITLE 4
RESERVED

TITLE 5
BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS

Chapters:

   5.04   Business Licenses

   5.08   Garage and Yard Sales

   5.12   Peddling, Soliciting and Hawking

   5.16   Card Clubs

   5.20   Private Patrol Services and Private Patrolmen

   5.24   Bingo

   5.28   Dance Halls

   5.32   Junk Dealers, Pawnbrokers, Secondhand Dealers and Salvage
Collectors

   5.36   Pool and Billiard Halls

   5.40   Cable, Video and Telecommunications Service Providers

   5.44   Fortune Telling

   5.48   Taxicabs

   5.52   Theaters

   5.56   Grading of Food Establishments

   5.60   Massage Establishments

   5.64   Adult-Oriented Businesses

   5.68   Non-Profit Car Washes

   5.72   Entertainment in Business Establishments

   5.76   Commercial Filming

   5.80   Tobacco Retailer’s License

   5.82   Sidewalk Vendors

   5.84   Food Trucks

Chapter 5.04
BUSINESS LICENSES

Sections:

   5.04.010   Definitions

   5.04.020   Business License Tax

   5.04.025   Tax Rates

   5.04.026   CPI Adjustments

   5.04.027   Minimum Tax

   5.04.030   Exemptions

   5.04.040   License a Receipt

   5.04.050   Separate License for Each Place of Business

   5.04.060   When Tax Is Due

   5.04.070   Application - Initial

   5.04.080   Business License Tax Renewals

   5.04.090   Delinquent Taxes (Penalty for Nonpayment of License)

   5.04.100   Administrative Procedures to Assess or Correct Tax

   5.04.110   General Administrative Remedy

   5.04.120   Appeal

   5.04.130   Posting and Keeping Licenses

   5.04.140   Constitutional Apportionment

   5.04.150   Refunds

   5.04.160   Audits

   5.04.170   Maintenance and Review of Records

   5.04.180   Information to be Confidential

   5.04.190   Action to Collect Delinquent Taxes

   5.04.200   Rules and Regulations

   5.04.210   Errors Not Binding on the City

5.04.010   Definitions.

The definitions in this Section apply to the words and phrases used in
this Chapter unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

   A.   “Business" means any business, commercial enterprise, trade,
calling, vocation, profession, occupation, or means of livelihood,
whether or not carried on for gain or profit. The term shall include
operations of subsidiary or independent entities conducted for the
benefit of others and at no profit to themselves, nonprofit businesses
and trade associations. A person shall not be deemed to be engaged in
business solely by reason of receipt of dividend or interest income from
passive investments.

   B.   "Business Classification" means the category of business subject
to tax under this Chapter. The business classifications are as follows.

      1.   Group 1: General/Retail. These are retailers, wholesalers,
hoteliers, restaurateurs, and manufacturers. Examples include but are
not limited to corporate headquarters, manufacturing, retail, wholesale.

      2.   Group 2: Professional. These businesses offer services that
require a rigorous amount of training through any type of higher
education, or vocational institutions that exclusively certifies,
complete obtainment of skills and the ability to offer such professional
services. Examples include but are not limited to a doctor's office, a
law office, a consulting firm, land developers, brokers, etc.

      3.   Group 3: Rental Properties including Commercial and
Residential Property Rentals. This category includes any business that
leases, rents, or provides use of real property to another individual or
entity for compensation. Examples include commercial leasing,
residential rental, parcel leasing, etc.

      4.   Group 4: Services. This is the offering of services that
require minimal to no higher education training. This is also the
default category for any business that is not specifically defined in
one (1) of the other five (5) categories. Examples include but are not
limited to health care centers, moving companies, hair stylists,
gardeners, nail salons, etc. Any business that does not fit within any
of the five (5) group classifications shall be deemed to be covered by
the services group.

      5.   Group 5: Contractors. These are persons or firms that are
carrying on the business of a contractor, subcontractor, or builder
particularly the construction or repair of any buildings. Examples
include but are not limited to construction, plumbing, HVAC, etc.

   C.   "Business License" means document issued by the City
acknowledging that a person has declared their business activity in the
City and has paid the business license tax required by this Chapter for
the declared business activity. A business license is valid for one (1)
tax year and only for the tax year for which the business license tax
has been paid.

   D.   "Employee" means person engaged in the operation of any business
whether as an agent, manager, solicitor, member of the owner's family,
or other person employed or working in the business.

   E.   "Fixed Place of Business" means the premises occupied in the
City for the purpose of conducting a business and regularly kept open
for that purpose with a person in attendance for the purpose of
attending to the business.

   F.   "Gross Receipts" except as otherwise specifically provided, the
term “gross receipts” as used in this Chapter is defined as follows:

      1.   The total amount of the sales price of all sales, the total
amount charged or received for the performance of any act, service, or
employment of whatever nature it may be, whether such service or act of
employment is done as a part of or in connection with the sale of goods,
wares, merchandise or not, for which a charge is made or credit allowed,
including, without limitation, all receipts, cash, credits, forfeited or
retained deposits of any kind and property of any kind or nature, in any
amount for which credit is allowed by the seller to the purchasers
without any deductions therefrom on account of the cost of the property
sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service costs, interest paid
or payable, losses or any other expense whatsoever. Where the gross
receipts are less than the cost of maintaining the operations of the
licensee, then the licensee shall be deemed to produce gross receipts in
an amount at least equal to the cost of maintaining such operations.
Such cost of operations includes, but is not limited to, rent,
depreciation, salaries, wages, fixed charges, and other expenses.

      2.   Excluded from gross receipts shall be:

         a.   Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;

         b.   The value of property accepted as part of the purchase
price for subsequent resale;

         c.   Any California state, city or city and county sales or use
tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and
collected from the consumer or purchaser;

         d.   Any City of Adelanto transient occupancy tax required to
be included in or added to the price of a room and collected from a
transient;

         e.   Such part of the sales price of property returned by the
purchaser upon the recission of the contract or sale as is refunded
either in cash or by credit;

         f.   Deposits which by law or contract must be refunded and are
actually refunded;

         g.   Collections for others when the business is acting as an
agent or trustee to the extent that payments are made to those for whom
collected;

         h.   The cash value of sales, trades, or transactions between
departments or units of the same business.

   G.   "Licensee" means a person required to obtain a business license
under this Chapter.

   H.   "Person" has the same meaning provided in Chapter 1.2 of this
Code.

   I.   "Previous Tax Year" means the tax year for a licensee that
immediately precedes the tax year for which a business license is being
obtained. Upon request by a licensee, the Tax Collector may approve the
use of a different "previous tax year" for a licensee in order to
conform to a licensee's fiscal year or to otherwise simplify the
calculation of the amount of business license tax owed by the licensee.

   J.   "Tax Collector" means the City Finance Director, Director of
Administrative Services or other City staff/officer charged with the
administration of this Chapter.

   K.   "Tax Year" means the year that begins each year on the date of a
licensee's first day of operation as a business in the City. Upon
request by a licensee, the Tax Collector may approve the use of a
different "tax year" for a licensee in order to conform to a licensee's
fiscal year or to otherwise simplify the calculation of the amount of
business license tax owed by the licensee.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.020   Business License Tax.

It shall be unlawful for any person either for himself or herself or for
any other person, to commence or carry on any business taxed pursuant to
this Chapter in the City of Adelanto, without having procured a business
license from the City.

   A.   A business license is evidence only of the fact that the
business license tax was paid based on the business activity as reported
to the City.

   B.   Neither the payment of business license tax nor the possession
of a business license authorizes the doing of any act which the person
paying the business license tax or holding a business license would not
otherwise be entitled to do.

   C.   A business license is not permission to carry on a business at
any place within the City where conducting such business is prohibited
or fails to comply with the City's zoning, planning, building, and
business regulations.

   D.   A business license is not permission to conduct a business in
such a manner as to create or maintain a nuisance.

   E.   A business license is only valid for the person to whom it is
issued and is not transferable.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.025   Tax Rates.

   A.   Businesses subject to the gross receipts tax pursuant to this
Chapter shall pay an annual business license tax to the City consisting
of a flat tax, a tax based on gross receipts or a tax based upon the
cost of doing business as defined in this Chapter, whichever amount is
greater.

   B.   Except as may be otherwise provided in this Chapter, every
person described in the following classifications who engages in
business within the City of Adelanto shall pay an annual business tax in
an amount computed in accordance with the following business tax rate
schedule. Every business with annual gross receipts of less than
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) shall pay the sum of twenty-five
dollars ($25) ("minimum tax"). For businesses with annual gross receipts
of over twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), the business license tax
shall be the minimum tax plus the gross receipts tax based upon adjusted
gross receipts over twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).

      1.   Group 1: General/Retail - Tax Rate. One dollar and
twenty-five cents ($1.25) per one thousand dollars ($1,000) gross
receipts.

      2.   Group 2: Professional -Tax Rate. Four dollars ($4) per one
thousand dollars ($1,000) gross receipts.

      3.   Group 3: Rental Properties - Tax Rate. Four dollars ($4) per
one thousand dollars ($1,000) gross receipts.

      4.   Group 4: Services - Tax Rate. Three dollars and fifty cents
($3.50) per one thousand dollars ($1,000) gross receipts.

      5.   Group 5: Contractors - Tax Rate. Three dollars and fifty
cents ($3.50) per one thousand dollars ($1,000) gross receipts.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.026   CPI Adjustments.

The minimum gross receipts threshold and all flat rates for calculating
the business license fee in the City of Adelanto shall be adjusted
annually based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all urban
consumers, as published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The
adjusted flat rates will be effective at the beginning of each fiscal
year and will be communicated to all affected businesses by the License
Collector.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.027   Minimum Tax.

   A.   Every business with annual gross receipts of less than
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) shall pay the sum of twenty-five
dollars ($25). For businesses with annual gross receipts of over
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), the business license tax shall
be the minimum tax plus the gross receipts tax based upon adjusted gross
receipts over twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).

   B.   By way of illustration, if a business is classified as a general
business and its hypothetical gross receipts were one hundred
twenty-five thousand dollars ($125,000) for the year, it would calculate
its tax by first subtracting twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) in
gross receipts, which is covered by the twenty-five dollar ($25) minimum
tax. Then, using the adjusted gross receipts of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000), it would multiply those gross receipts by the rate
for basic businesses, which is 0.0003 (or 30 cents ($0.30) per thousand
dollars ($1,000)) to get the tax of thirty dollars ($30). Adding the
minimum tax and this gross receipt tax the total tax owed in this
example would be fifty-five dollars ($55).

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.030   Exemptions.

Any person claiming an exemption pursuant to this Section shall file a
sworn statement with the Collector stating the facts upon which
exemption is claimed and in the absence of such statement substantiating
the claim, such person shall be liable for the payment of the taxes
imposed by this Chapter. Exemptions:

   A.   For the purposes of this Section, City purchases shall be exempt
from the calculation of the required business tax as follows: Whenever
the measure of the business tax is based on gross receipts, the person
subject to the business tax may exclude from the business tax
calculation the dollar value of purchases or services made directly by
the City of Adelanto from the person subject to the tax.

   B.   Any business exempt from the tax by the laws of the United
States or the State of California.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.040   License a Receipt.

The business tax receipts issued under the authority of Title 5 of this
Code are receipts of payment of the business taxes levied on the
privilege of carrying on or engaging in a business, profession or
occupation under the City's taxing power. The business tax receipts are
not regulatory licenses issued under the City's police power. Provisions
of a regulatory nature contained in Title 5 of this Code are placed in
Title 5 as a matter of convenience only. Although a separate regulatory
business tax receipt is not issued, such provisions are imposed as
conditions of an additional regulatory license imposed under the City's
police power to regulate businesses, occupations, professions, trades,
or callings to protect the public health, morals, safety and welfare.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.050   Separate License for Each Place of Business.

If a person engages in the same business in two (2) or more places in
Adelanto, each place of business shall be taxed under this Chapter as a
separate entity. If a person engages in two (2) or more different
businesses at the same location, each business shall be taxed as a
separate entity; and there shall be no credit or setoff for taxes paid
at one (1) location against taxes due from another location, nor shall
there be credit or setoff for taxes due from different businesses at the
same location.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.060   When Tax Is Due.

   A.   When a licensee first begins operating a business in the City,
the tax imposed by this Chapter is due thirty (30) days after the first
day of business operation in the City and is delinquent sixty (60) days
after the first day of business operation if not paid.

   B.   After the first tax year of operation and for all subsequent tax
years, the tax is due thirty (30) days after the first day of the tax
year and is delinquent sixty (60) days after the first day of the tax
year if not paid.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.070   Application - Initial.

   A.   Upon a person making an application for the first business tax
receipt for a newly established or acquired business, such person shall
furnish to the Collector a sworn statement, upon a form provided by the
Collector; setting forth the following information:

      1.   The name of the business and the address at which it will be
operating;

      2.   The nature of the business's activities enough for the Tax
Collector to determine the business classification and category of the
business;

      3.   The date on which the business will begin operating;

      4.   In all cases where the amount of tax to be paid is measured
by gross receipts, the application shall set forth such information as
may be therein required and as may be necessary to determine the amount
of the tax to be paid by the applicant;

      5.   Any further information which the Collector may require.

   B.   If the amount of the tax to be paid by the applicant is measured
by gross receipts, he or she shall estimate the gross receipts for the
period covered. Such an estimate, if accepted by the Collector as
reasonable, shall be used in determining the amount of tax to be paid by
the applicant; provided, however, the amount of the tax so determined
shall be tentative only. Furthermore:

      1.   Within thirty (30) days after the end of its first tax year
of operation in the City, a business must provide the Tax Collector with
a statement of its actual gross receipts for that year, accompanied by
supporting records.

      2.   If the actual gross receipts exceed the estimated gross
receipts used to calculate and pay the tax for the first year, an
additional tax based on the excess amount will be assessed and due
within sixty (60) days of the beginning of the second tax year.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.080   Business License Tax Renewals.

   A.   Starting from the second tax year of operation and for every tax
year thereafter, a business must submit its business license renewal
application within thirty (30) days from the beginning of the tax year.

   B.   The business license renewal application must include the
following information, along with any other details required by the Tax
Collector:

      1.   The name of the business and the address at which it will be
operating.

      2.   The nature of the business's activities sufficient for the
Tax Collector to determine the business classification and category of
the business.

      3.   The business's gross receipts for the previous tax year.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.090   Delinquent Taxes (Penalty for Nonpayment of License).

   A.   When a tax becomes delinquent, a penalty of twenty-five percent
(25%) of the amount of the delinquent tax will be added to the amount of
tax due. If the tax remains unpaid sixty (60) days after becoming
delinquent, an additional penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the
amount of the delinquent tax (excluding the initial penalty) will be
added to the amount of tax due.

   B.   On the first of each month that a tax is delinquent, interest in
the amount of one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the delinquent amount,
excluding penalties and interest, will be added to the amount of tax
due.

   C.   A licensee may apply to the Tax Collector for a reduction or
waiver of any accrued penalties or interest, and the Tax Collector may
reduce or waive any accrued penalties or interest upon a finding of good
cause.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.100   Administrative Procedure to Assess or Correct Tax.

   A.   If the Tax Collector determines that a licensee has incorrectly
reported any information to the City or has not paid all or any of the
tax, penalties, or interest that are due, the Tax Collector may, using
any information available to the Tax Collector, issue an initial
determination stating what the Tax Collector believes to be the correct
information and, if new or additional tax, penalties, or interest are
due, how much tax, penalties, or interest are due. The initial
determination must be served on the licensee either personally or by
U.S. mail to the most recent

address for the licensee in the Tax Collector's records.

   B.   A licensee affected by an initial determination may within 15
days of service of an initial determination contest the initial
determination and request a hearing before the Tax Collector by filing
with the Tax Collector a written request for a hearing. The further
accrual of penalties and interest shall be tolled upon the filing of a
request for a hearing. If licensee does not contest an initial
determination and request a hearing with the Tax Collector within 15
days of service of the initial determination, the initial determination
is final and cannot be appealed.

   C.   If a licensee timely contests an initial determination and
requests a hearing, the Tax Collector must set a hearing within thirty
(30) days of the filing of the request for a hearing or as soon
thereafter as reasonably practical. Notice of the hearing must be served
on the licensee either personally or by U.S. mail to the most recent
address for the licensee in the Tax Collector's records.

   D.   At the hearing the licensee may present evidence and argument
regarding the initial determination to show why the initial
determination is incorrect and to show what the determination of the Tax
Collector should be. Within sixty (60) days after the close of the
hearing or as soon thereafter as reasonably practical, the Tax Collector
must serve a final determination, setting forth the Tax Collector's
determination of the facts and issues that were the subject of the
initial determination. The final determination must be served on the
licensee either personally or by U.S. mail to the most recent address
for the licensee in the Tax Collector's records. Unless an appeal of a
final determination is filed under Section 5.04.120, any penalties or
interest tolled under Subsection B. of this Section will resume accruing
ten (10) days after the service of the final determination.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.110   General Administrative Remedy.

   A.   Any person affected by a decision of the Tax Collector ("the
challenger"), except for a decision under Section 5.04.100, may
challenge that decision by filing a written objection to the decision
with the Tax Collector. The objection must be filed within fifteen (15)
days of the issuance of the decision being challenged. If the Tax
Collector was required to provide notice of the decision, then the time
to file an objection to the decision begins to run from the date of
service of the notice of the decision. The Tax Collector must serve a
written response to the objection within thirty (30) days of the filing
of the objection, which period can be extended by the Tax Collector for
an additional thirty (30) days. The Tax Collector's response to the
objection must be served on the challenger either personally or by U.S.
mail to the most recent address for the challenger in the Tax
Collector's records.

   B.   The challenger may request a hearing on the Tax Collector's
response to the objection by filing a request for a hearing with the Tax
Collector within fifteen (15) days of service of the response to the
objection. If a timely request for a hearing on a response to the
objection is filed with the Tax Collector, the Tax Collector must set a
hearing within thirty (30) days of the filing of the request for a
hearing or as soon as reasonably practical thereafter. Notice of the
hearing must be served on the challenger either personally or by U.S.
mail to the most recent address for the challenger in the Tax
Collector's records.

   C.   At the hearing the challenger may present evidence and argument
regarding the decision being challenged to show why the decision is
incorrect and to show what it should be. Within sixty (60) days after
the close of the hearing, which the Tax Collector may extend for an
additional sixty (60) days, the Tax Collector must serve a final
determination on the decision, setting forth the Tax Collector's
determination of the decision that was challenged. The final
determination must be served on the challenger either personally or by
U.S. mail to the most recent address for the challenger in the Tax
Collector's records. Service is effective upon deposit of the final
determination in the U.S. mail.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.120   Appeal.

   A.   A final determination of the Tax Collector under Section
5.04.100D. or C., can be appealed to the City Manager by filing a
written notice of appeal with the City Manager within fifteen (15) days
of service of the notice of the final determination being appealed.

   B.   Only a licensee who files a timely request for a hearing on an
initial determination under Section 5.04.100 and participates in the
hearing or a challenger who files an objection to a decision and files a
request for a hearing on the response to the objection under Section
5.04.100 and participates in the hearing can file an appeal under this
Section.

   C.   If a timely appeal is filed, the City Manager, must set a
hearing within sixty (60) days of the filing of the appeal, which may be
extended by the City Manager for an additional sixty (60) days. Notice
of the hearing must be served on the appellant either personally or by
U.S. mail to the most recent address for the challenger in the Tax
Collector's records. The tolling of the accrual of penalties or interest
under Section 5.04.100 B., shall continue upon the timely filing of an
appeal under this Section.

   D.   At the hearing the appellant and the Tax Collector may present
evidence and argument regarding the decision being appealed to show why
the decision is correct or incorrect and to show what it should be.
Within sixty (60) days after the close of the hearing, which the City
Manager may extend for an additional sixty (60) days, the City Manager
must serve a written decision, setting forth the resolution of the
appeal. The decision must be served on the appellant either personally
or by U.S. mail to the most recent address for the appellant in the Tax
Collector's records. Service is effective upon deposit of the decision
in the U.S. mail. Any penalties and interest that were tolled under
Section 5.04.100B., shall resume accruing ten (10) days after the
service of the decision.

   E.   A decision of the City Manager, or the City Manager's designee,
served under Subsection D. of this Section is subject to judicial review
under Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1094.5 and 1094.6 (or subsequent
laws if amended) with a writ petition filed in the appropriate court
within the ninety (90) days of the service of the written decision. Any
tax, penalties, or interest determined by the decision to be owed to the
City by the appellant must be paid to the City as a precondition to
filing a writ petition challenging the decision, but a claim for a
refund under Section 5.04.150 does not have to be filed before filing a
writ petition.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.130   Posting and Keeping Licenses.

Any licensee transacting and carrying on business at a fixed place of
business in the City shall keep the license posted in a conspicuous
place upon the premises where such business is carried on, whether or
not said place of business is the City of Adelanto.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.140   Constitutional Apportionment.

   A.   No tax imposed by this Chapter may be applied to a licensee so
as to constitute an undue burden on interstate commerce or intercity
commerce or be violative of the equal protection or due process clauses
of the United States or California constitutions.

   B.   A licensee who contends that the application of a tax imposed by
this Chapter on the licensee constitutes an undue burden on interstate
commerce or intercity commerce or violates the equal protection or due
process clauses of the United States or California constitutions may
apply to the Tax Collector for an apportionment of the tax imposed on
the licensee that would remove the constitutional violation by filing a
written request with the Tax Collector that explains the factual and
legal basis for the claimed constitutional violation and proposes a
method of apportionment that would resolve the alleged constitutional
violations.

   C.   The Tax Collector, in consultation with City Attorney, shall
review the application and within sixty (60) days of the filing of the
application issue a decision on the application. The decision on the
application must be served on the licensee either personally or by U.S.
mail to the most recent address for the challenger in the Tax
Collector's records. The decision can be challenged under Section
5.04.110.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.150   Refunds.

   A.   A licensee who believes that any tax, penalty, or interest has
been illegally, erroneously, or mistakenly paid to, collected by, or
otherwise received by the City may file a claim for a refund of the
amount of tax, penalty, or interest claimed to have been improperly
received by the City.

   B.   The claim must be filed with the Tax Collector and signed under
penalty of perjury by the licensee. The claim must state:

      1.   The legal and factual basis for the refund claim;

      2.   The amount of tax, penalty, or interest allegedly improperly
received by the City;

      3.   The date or dates that the improper payments were made to the
City; and

      4.   The address of the claimant.

   C.   The claim must be filed with the Tax Collector within one (1)
year of the date of the allegedly improper payment to the City.

   D.   The Tax Collector must provide a written decision on the claim
within thirty (30) days of the filing of the claim by serving the
decision on the claimant either personally or by U.S. mail to the
address provided in the claim. Service is effective upon deposit of the
response in the U.S. mail.

   E.   A claimant may challenge the Tax Collector's decision on a
refund claim under Section 5.04.100.

   F.   This Section does not apply to:

      1.   A claim for a refund arising out of a decision of the Tax
Collector or City Manager under Sections 5.04.100, 5.04.110, 5.04.120 or
5.04.140.

      2.   A claim that could have been asserted by the claimant, but
was not, under Sections 5.04.100, 5.04.110, 5.04.120 or 5.04.140.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.160   Audits.

   A.   The Tax Collector may conduct an audit of any licensee to ensure
proper compliance with the requirements of this Chapter.

   B.   To initiate an audit the Tax Collector must provide written
notice to the licensee that is the subject of the audit of the
initiation of the audit by serving the notice personally or by U.S. mail
to the most recent address for the licensee in the Tax Collector's
records. The notice must state the period of time subject to the audit.

   C.   Notice of the initiation of an audit for a tax year for which an
application for a business license under Sections 5.04.140 or 5.04.020
was filed by the licensee must be served within three (3) years of the
last day of the tax year to which the application applied.

   D.   Notice of the initiation of an audit for a tax year for which an
application for a business license was not filed by the licensee under
Sections 5.04.160 or 5.04.020, but for which the licensee did register
as a business under another Chapter of this Code, must be served within
five (5) years of the last day of the tax year for which the application
should have been filed.

   E.   Notice of the initiation of an audit for a tax year for which an
application for a business license was not filed by the licensee under
Sections 5.04.140 or 5.04.020, and for which the licensee did not
register as a business under another Chapter of this Code, must be
served within ten (10) years of the last day of the tax year for which
the application should have been filed.

   F.   Upon completion of an audit, the Tax Collector may make an
initial determination under Section 5.04.100A. of any taxes, penalties,
and interest determined to be owed and not paid for the audit period. If
a licensee subject to audit is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient
records to enable the Tax Collector to verify compliance with this
Chapter, the Tax Collector is authorized to make a reasonable estimate
of the amount of tax due and the reasonable estimate shall be entitled
to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.170   Maintenance and Review of Records.

   A.   Licensees must maintain for six (6) years records of gross
receipts and other information necessary to calculate the tax. If the
Tax Collector serves notice of the initiation of an audit, the
information pertinent for the years subject to the audit must be
maintained until the conclusion of the audit.

   B.   The Tax Collector may with reasonable notice inspect the records
of the licensee.

   C.   The Tax Collector may request the City Council to issue an
administrative subpoena for records of a licensee or other persons with
relevant information.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.180   Information to be Confidential.

It is unlawful for the Tax Collector or any person having an
administrative duty under the provisions of this Chapter to make known
in any manner whatever the business affairs, operations, or information
obtained by an investigation of records and equipment of any person
visited or examined in the discharge of official duty, or the amount or
source of income, profits, losses, expenditures, or any particular
thereof, set forth in any statement or application, or to permit any
statement or application, or copy of either, or any book containing any
abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person;
provided, that nothing in this Section shall be construed to prevent:

   A.   The disclosure to, or the examination of records and equipment
by, another City official, employee, or agent for collection of taxes
for the sole purpose of administering or enforcing any provisions of
this Chapter, or collecting taxes imposed under this Chapter;

   B.   The disclosure of information to, or the examination of records
by, Federal or State officials, or the tax officials of another city or
county, or city and county, if a reciprocal arrangement exists, or to a
grand jury or court of law, upon subpoena;

   C.   The disclosure of information and results of examination of
records of particular taxpayers, or relating to particular taxpayers, to
a court of law in a proceeding brought to determine the existence or
amount of any license tax liability of the particular taxpayers to the
City;

   D.   The disclosure, after the filing of a written request to that
effect, to the taxpayer himself or herself, or to his or her successors,
receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assignees and
guarantors, if directly interested, of information as to the items
included in the measure of any paid tax, any unpaid tax or amounts of
tax required to be collected, interest and penalties; further provided,
however, that the City Attorney approves each such disclosure and that
the Collector may refuse to make any disclosure referred to in this
Subsection when in his or her opinion the public interest would suffer
thereby;

   E.   The disclosure of the names and addresses of persons to whom
licenses have been issued, and the general type or nature of their
business;

   F.   The disclosure by way of public meeting or otherwise of such
information as may be necessary to the City Council in order to permit
it to be fully advised as to the facts when a taxpayer files a claim for
refund of license taxes, or submits an offer of compromise with regard
to a claim asserted against him or her by the City for license taxes, or
when acting upon any other matter;

   G.   The disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes collected
or business done in the City.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.190   Action to Collect Delinquent Taxes.

   A.   Any tax, penalty, and interest imposed on a licensee under this
Chapter is a debt owed by the licensee to the City, which may be
recovered in an action filed by the City in a court of competent
jurisdiction.

   B.   An action under this Section must be filed within three (3)
years of an initial determination becoming final under Section
5.04.100B., the issuance of a final determination under Section
5.04.100D. that is not appealed, the issuance of a final determination
under Section 5.04.110C. that is not appealed, or the issuance of a
decision under Section 5.04.120D.

   C.   During the pendency of an action filed under this Section,
interest will continue to accrue under Section 5.04.190B. until the
entry of judgment.

   D.   The City Council may by resolution establish a collection fee to
be imposed on any licensee against whom an action is filed under this
Section, which fee may be recovered in the action.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.200   Rules and Regulations.

The Finance Director of the City may make such rules and regulations as
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter of the Adelanto
Municipal Code as are necessary or desirable to aid in the enforcement
and administration of the provisions of said Chapter. When, by reason of
the provisions of the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of the State of California, the business tax imposed by
this Chapter cannot be enforced without there being an apportionment
according to the amount of business done within the City, or in the
State, as the case may be, the Finance Director may make such rules and
regulations for the apportionment of the taxes as are necessary or
desirable to overcome the constitutional objections. Such rules,
regulations, and apportionment thereunder shall be approved by the City
Attorney prior to becoming effective.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

5.04.210   Errors Not Binding on the City.

No error by the Tax Collector or any other officer, employee, or agent
of the City in the application of this Chapter shall prevent, prejudice,
or stop the collection by or for the City of the full amount of tax owed
by any person under this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]

Chapter 5.08
GARAGE AND YARD SALES

Sections:

   5.08.010   Definition

   5.08.020   Permit Required - Issuance Conditions

   5.08.030   Permit - Duration

   5.08.040   Permit - Application - Fee

   5.08.050   Inspection

   5.08.060   Misdemeanor

5.08.010 Definition.

“Yard Sale” or “Garage Sale,” for the purposes of this Chapter should
mean any event, which is advertised by any means whatsoever as a place
or location to which members of the public may come and purchase
identifiable or tangible personal property; provided, however, it shall
not mean any such event which constitutes a sales activity, wholesale or
retail, by any business, which has a current business license issued by
the City.

[Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.08.020   Permit Required - Issuance Conditions.

It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, joint
venture, association or any other form of organization to organize,
conduct, establish or operate a yard sale or garage sale in the City
without first obtaining a permit to do so from the Collector or his
authorized representative. [Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72.]

The Collector or his authorized representative shall issue a yard sale
or garage sale permit to an applicant if he finds all of the following
conditions exist:

   A.   The operation or conduct of the requested event will not be
contrary to the public peace, health, safety and welfare of the City;
and

   B.   Applicant has submitted satisfactory evidence that adequate and
safe parking accommodations will be provided; and

   C.   The location at which the proposed yard sale or garage sale is
to be held is not at a location at which a yard sale or garage sale has
been conducted within six (6) months immediately preceding the date of
filing the pending application; and

   D.   The Applicant has paid the application fee as provided herein
below.

[Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.08.030   Permit - Duration.

   A.   Any permit issued hereunder shall be for a period not exceeding
five (5) consecutive calendar days from the date of issuance. A
permittee granted a permit hereunder shall not conduct a yard sale or
garage sale for a period of time in excess of three consecutive calendar
days. All advertising carried on in conjunction with the sale shall be
removed after completion of the sale. [Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72.]

   B.   The maximum number of yard sales or garage sales permitted under
this Section for any multi-family residence is one per calendar year per
occupied unit. The tenant of a multi-family residence shall receive
written permission from the owner of the property prior to obtaining the
yard sale or garage sale permit and shall submit this written
authorization at the time application is made for the permit. Only the
occupant of the multi-family residential unit shall be permitted to
apply for and obtain a yard sale or garage sale permit.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.08.040   Permit - Application - Fee.

Application for a yard sale or garage sale permit shall be made to the
City Clerk on forms provided by him and shall be accompanied by a fee of
one dollar ($1.00), said fee to be used to defray the City’s expenses in
processing said application. Permits shall be displayed at the site of
the sale.

[Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.08.050   Inspection.

All identifiable and tangible personal property, which is exhibited for
sale at a yard sale or garage sale, shall be made accessible by the
permittee to law enforcement officials at all times for their review and
inspection; and during any such sale the location thereof shall be open
by permittee to all fire prevention and health officers of the City for
the purpose of their inspection to determine that said sale complies
with the City's and State of California's fire prevention and health
regulations.

[Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.08.060   Misdemeanor.

Any person or organization, which shall violate any provision of this
Title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, which shall be punishable
by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by
imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.

[Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72 ; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.12
PEDDLING, SOLICITING AND HAWKING

Sections:

   5.12.010   License Application Requirements

   5.12.020   License Limitations

   5.12.030   Hours of Operation

   5.12.040   Hawking Prohibited

   5.12.050   Exceptions

   5.12.060   Mobile Food Vending Vehicle Operations

5.12.010   License Application Requirements.

In addition to the application requirements specified in Section
5.04.070, the following information shall be required:

   A.   The supplier of the goods to be sold;

   B.   The place and date of any court judgment rendered against the
applicant as a sex offender or as a defendant guilty of a criminal
battery, fraud, burglary or theft;

   C.   A copy of the state sales tax permit (Revenue and Taxation Code
Section 6066) for the applicant’s activities attached to the
application;

   D.   A description of every type of merchandise or service that the
applicant proposes to peddle or solicit;

   E.   A designation of the location or locations at which place or
places the applicant proposes to peddle or solicit and the dates and
time of the same;

   F.   A copy of the permit for any food products which are regulated.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.12.020   License Limitations.

Upon filing a complete application and all required documentation and
payment of the required fee, the City shall transmit one (1) copy to the
Police Department. The Chief of Police or designee shall, within thirty
(30) business days of the referral report to the Collector, in writing,
recommend approval or denial of the license and state the reasons
therefore. The license shall not be issued unless all of the following
conditions have been met:

   A.   The applicant has submitted a correct and complete application
form;

   B.   The applicant has paid all required fees;

   C.   The supplier of the personal property to be sold has .been
sufficiently identified as required by this Chapter and there is no
reasonable doubt as to the title or ownership of the personal property;

   D.   The applicant has not had a judgment rendered against him as a
violator of California law as a sex offender, as a person who has
committed a criminal battery, burglary or theft, or as a person who has
committed a fraud;

   E.   The time and place of the proposed licensed activities is in
accordance with the regulations set forth in this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.12.030   Hours of Operation.

A license issued under this Chapter shall authorize the licensee to
peddle or solicit during the dates specified on the license and only
during daylight hours.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.12.040   Hawking Prohibited.

Hawking, as defined in this Title, is prohibited within the city limits
of the City.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.12.050   Exceptions.

The following persons must apply for and be given a license pursuant to
this Chapter and shall be subject to the exemption specified below:

   A.   Veterans Exemption. Any person who was honorably discharged or
honorably relieved from the armed services of the United States shall
not be required to pay a license fee under this Chapter unless the
merchandise includes spirituous, malt, vinous or other intoxicating
liquor.

   B.   Religious, Educational Scientific or Charitable Organizations.
Organizations qualifying under this Chapter shall not be required to pay
a license fee.

   C.   Physically Disabled and Blind Persons. Any person who is either:

      1.   Physically disabled, or is

      2.   Certified by a physician to be blind,

shall not be required to pay a license fee.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.12.060   Mobile Food Vending Vehicle Operations.

Special requirements for mobile food vending vehicle operations shall
apply as follows:

   A.   Equipment Requirements for Mobile Food Vending Operations. In
addition to other equipment required by law, every mobile food vending
vehicle shall be equipped with:

      1.   Signal lamps mounted at the same level and as high and as
widely space laterally as practicable. These lamps shall be five (5) to
seven (7) inches in diameter and shall display two (2) alternately
flashing amber lights visible at five hundred (500) feet to the front
and rear in normal sunlight upon a straight level street. The light
output of each indicator shall not be less than five (5) candle power
nor more than fifteen (15) candle power at any time;

      2.   A convex mirror mounted on the front so the driver in his
normal seating position can see the area in front of the truck obscured
by the hood;

      3.   An audible warning device to indicate vehicle backing
automatically activated and audible at a distance of one hundred (100)
feet to the direct rear of the vehicle.

   B.   Use of Special Lights on Mobile Food Vending Vehicles.

      1.   The driver of a mobile food vending vehicle stopped on the
street for the purpose of vending shall actuate the special amber
flashing lights required by Subsection A.1. of this Section;

      2.   These lights shall not be used when the truck is in motion
nor at any time the truck is stopped for a purpose other than vending.

   C.   Inspection Required. Every mobile food vending vehicle shall be
inspected by the Chief of Police or designee once each year prior to its
use in this City for the purpose of retail sales of frozen dairy
products. The department shall inspect each mobile food vending vehicle
to determine whether it complies with this Chapter and other state and
local laws. Notice from the captain or designee shall be made to the
business license officer prior to issuance of a City business license.

   D.   Vending Restrictions.

      1.   A person shall not vend within five hundred (500) feet of any
property used as a grade school, junior high school or middle school,
either public or private, from one (1) hour before the regular school
day to one (1) hour after the regular school day; provided, this
Subsection shall not apply on days when school is not attended by
children or on school property when vending has been approved in writing
by the principal.

      2.   A personal shall vend only when the vehicle is lawfully
parked or stopped.

      3.   A person shall vend only from the side of the vehicle away
from moving traffic and as near as possible to the curb or edge of the
right-of-way.

      4.   A person shall not vend to a person standing in the roadway.

      5.   A person shall not stop on the left side of a one-way street
to vend.

      6.   A person shall not vend on a street unless there is a clear
view of the mobile food vending vehicle for a distance of at least two
hundred (200) feet in each direction.

      7.   A person shall not vend except during the period between
thirty (30) minutes before sunrise and thirty (30) minutes after sunset.

      8.   A person shall not vend within five hundred (500) feet of any
property used as a public or private park or playground.

   E.   Backing Restricted. The vendor shall not back up the vehicle on
a public street to make or attempt a sale.

   F.   Unauthorized Riders Prohibited.

      1.   The driver shall not permit any unauthorized person to ride
in or on the vehicle.

      2.   A person shall not ride in or on a mobile food vending
machine unless employed by its owner or unless authorized in writing to
do so by the owner or Police Department.

   G.   Exemption Authorized.

      1.   The Collector, with the concurrence of the Chief of Police or
designee, may exempt from the requirements of this Chapter any mobile
food vendor which is not used to vend to persons under twelve (12) years
of age.

      2.   The special equipment, inspection and vending restrictions do
not apply to vendors which do not vend to persons under twelve (12)
years of age.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.16
CARD CLUBS

Sections:

   5.16.010   Definitions

   5.16.020   Licenses - Required

   5.16.030   Licenses - Applications

   5.16.040   Reserved

   5.16.050   License Fees and Deposits

   5.16.060   Approval of Pointholder Fee

   5.16.070   Gross Revenue License Fees

   5.16.080   Investigations and Reports

   5.16.090   City Council Consideration of Application

   5.16.100   Denial of Application

   5.16.110   Location of Card Club

   5.16.120   Expiration of Licenses; Renewal

   5.16.130   Reserved

   5.16.140   Transfer and Assignment of Licenses

   5.16.150   Suspension and Revocation of Licenses, Fines

   5.16.160   Rules and Regulations

   5.16.170   Seat Rental and Other Playing Fees

   5.16.180   Application for Employment Identification Card

   5.16.190   Pointholders - Applications for Sale or Transfer of Points

   5.16.200   Pointholders - Updating of Investigations - Divestments

   5.16.210   Unlawful Act

   5.16.220   Exclusion of Persons from Card Clubs

   5.16.230   Administration of Chapter by City Manager

   5.16.240   Violations

5.16.010 Definitions.

For the purpose of this Chapter, the words and phrases set forth in this
Section shall have the following meanings ascribed to them unless the
context clearly requires to the contrary:

   A.   “Applicant” means any person who has filed an application
seeking to be approved by the City as having an ownership interest in a
licensed Card Club or a person seeking approval of Pointholder status.
[Ord, No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]

   B.   “Card Club” (also referred to as a “Gaming Club”) means a
business or enterprise licensed under the provisions of this Chapter for
the Playing of Games or Card Games, as defined in Subsections L. and T.
of this Section, and shall include any Licensee’s business activities
incidental thereto that are conducted on the premises, such as, but not
limited to, food, beverage, retail sales or valet services. “Card Club”
shall exclude business activities operated by unaffiliated third-party
entities. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92; amended by Ord. No.
301, § A, adopted 9/26/95; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted
12/13/23.]

   C.   “Card Room” means and includes that area or areas within the
Card Club in which Card Games are conducted. Any license issued
hereunder shall designate such Card Room areas. [Ord. No. 249, § 010,
adopted 9/22/92.]

   D.   “Commence” means and includes commence, begin, initiate, start,
open and establish. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]

   E.   “Conduct” means and includes conduct, transact, maintain,
prosecute, practice, manage, operate and carry on. [Ord. No. 249, § 010,
adopted 9/22/92.]

   F.   “Conviction” or “Convicted” means a plea of guilty, a final
verdict of guilty, or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere.
[Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]

   G.   “Employee” means every person who is an agent of a Card Club
Licensee or who acts under the direction of an owner or other employee
of a Card Club Licensee or of a business conducted on the premises of a
Card Club. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]

   H.   “Filing and Processing Fees” means the imposition, by the
provisions of this Chapter, or a subsequent City Council resolution or
ordinance, of fees or deposits to be used for the purpose of reimbursing
the City for its costs of administering the provisions of this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]

   I.   "Funded Player" shall mean any proposition player who plays
controlled Games at a licensed Card Club with financing provided by a
Funding Source. [Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

   J.   "Funding Source" shall mean the person(s) who provide(s) the
financing, including, but not limited to, loans, credit, currency,
negotiable instrument, chips or any other representation or thing of
value to a Funded Player for use in the playing of a controlled Game at
a Card Club. [Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

   K.   "Funding Source Key Management" shall mean every person with the
actual or ostensible authority to manage, supervise, instruct, direct or
control the Funding Source in the provision of financing, including, but
not limited to, loans, credit, currency, negotiable instruments, chips
or any other representation or thing of value to a Funded Player for use
in the playing of a controlled Game at a Card Club. [Ord. No. 646, § 2,
adopted 12/13/23.]

   L.   “Games” means any Game permitted to be played at a Card Club
pursuant to the California Penal Code or other provisions of State law,
as they now exist or as they are amended, or this Chapter. [Amended by
Ord. No. 301, § B, adopted 9/26/95; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2,
adopted 12/13/23.]

   M.   “Gross Revenue of the Card Game Business” means and includes
seat rental fees and any and all other table revenues directly derived
from Card Games conducted on or within the Card Room, less any direct
promotional expenses, and shall not include fees charged to players that
are returned to the players as tournament or jackpot bonuses. As used
herein, "Direct Promotions Expenses" include, but are not limited to,
gambling chips provided by casinos to customers that have no cash value
and cannot be redeemed for cash at any time, and player points that are
used to incentivize customers to increase gaming play. “Gross Revenue of
the Card Game Business” does not include revenue derived from the sale
of food, beverages, sundries or from any other non-gaming activities.
[Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2,
adopted 12/13/23.]

   N.   "Key Management Employee" shall mean every person with the
actual or ostensible authority (1) to direct gaming operations; or (2)
to direct supervisory and general employees of a Card Club engaged in
its gaming operations; and (3) to direct the counting of, or accounting
for, revenue generated by the club. The term "Key Management Employee"
includes, without limitation, those persons who fill such positions as
shall be designated by the City Manager as key employees. [Ord. No. 646,
§ 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

   O.   “License” means License issued pursuant to this Chapter allowing
the operation of a Card Club. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]

   P.   “Licensee” means the holder of a License. [Ord. No. 249, § 010,
adopted 9/22/92.]

   Q.   “License Fees” means business License taxes levied upon each
Licensee pursuant to this Chapter. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted
9/22/92.]

   R.   “Owner” means every person, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, or other entity having any interest, legal or equitable, in
any Card Club or Card Club License. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted.]

   S.   “Person” means and includes a natural person or any other legal
entity. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]

   T.   “Playing Cards” or “Card Games” means the Playing of a Game or
Card Game permitted to be played at a Card Club pursuant to the
California Penal Code or other provisions of State law, as they now
exist or as they are amended, or this Chapter. [Amended by Ord. No. 301,
§ C, adopted 9/26/95; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

      1.   “Playing Cards” or “Card Games” also means the playing of any
additional kind of Game or gaming device or machine at a Card Club,
whether or not such Game or gaming device or machine involves the use of
cards which are not prohibited and made unlawful by the California Penal
Code or other provisions of State law, as they now exist or as they are
amended, or this Chapter. [Amended by Ord. No. 301, § D, adopted
9/26/95; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

   U.   “Pointholder” means any person having any interest whatsoever,
or at all, in the ownership of a Card Club, whether legal, equitable, or
of whatsoever kind or character, including, but not limited to, trust
beneficiaries, or stockholders of a corporation to whom a License is
issued. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]

   V.   “Purpose to Commence” or “Purport to Conduct” means and includes
any showing, representation, indication or action which:

      1.   By means of sign, advertisement or advertising matter,
whether in, upon or about any premises or otherwise; or

      2.   By the appearance or arrangement of any premises; or

      3.   By acts or statements of any person, or by the agents,
servants, or employees of any person, indicates, suggests, holds out or
represents that any person is, would be, or appears to be conducting or
in a position to conduct any business referred to in this Chapter within
the City.

[Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.16.020   Licenses - Required.

   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commence or conduct, or
purport to commence or conduct, within the City, any business, activity,
enterprise, undertaking, or place, where tables or other items or units
of furniture are used directly or indirectly for Playing Cards or Card
Games for which a fee, commission, or compensation is directly or
indirectly charged, accepted, or received from players who participate
in any such Playing of Games, unless such person shall first obtained a
License to do so under and in compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter. [Ord. No. 249, § 020, adopted 9/22/92.]

   B.   No application form for a License for a Card Club shall be
received, filed or processed by the City Manager when the total number
of current and valid license for Card Clubs in the City equals the total
permitted.

[Ord. No. 249, § 020, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.030   Licenses - Applications.

It is the declared policy of the City Council that Pointholders, Key
Management Employees, Funded Players, Funded Sources and Funded Sources
Key Management apply for and be issued licenses by the City after a
personal background investigation is completed, and that such persons be
supervised so as to better protect the public health, safety, morals,
good order and public welfare. Except as provided hereinbelow with
respect to a Card Club License, no Applicant, person or Licensee shall
acquire a vested right in any License issued, registration issued,
finding of suitability, or approval granted by the City Council at any
stage in the proceedings. [Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

Any person desiring or proposing to commence or conduct any business,
activity, enterprise, undertaking, or place named, designated, specified
or referred to in this Chapter for the Playing of Cards or Card Games
shall file with the City Manager a written application for a License to
do so as required by the provisions of this Chapter. Concurrently with
the filing of the application, each person identified therein shall be
fingerprinted by the City Manager or his/her designee, and no
application shall be deemed filed until the fingerprinting is completed.
Each such application shall contain and clearly and truthfully, under
oath or affirmation, set forth and show, in addition to such other
information as the City Manager shall require, the following
information:

   A.   The date of the application; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted
9/22/92.]

   B.   The true name of the Applicant, and any other names by which the
Applicant is or has been known; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]

   C.   The status of the Applicant as being an individual, firm,
association, partnership, joint venture or corporation; [Ord. No. 249, §
030, adopted 9/22/92.]

   D.   If the Applicant is an individual, the residence and business
address of such Applicant; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]

   E.   If the Applicant is other than a individual, the true name,
residence and business address of each Pointholder, partner, principal,
joint venturer, shareholder, director, or officer of the Applicant; and
any other names by which said Pointholders, partners, principals, joint
venturers, shareholders, directors, or officers have been or are known;
[Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]

   F.   A full and complete financial statement of the Applicant,
whether it is an individual, corporation, partnership, or other entity,
and a full and complete financial statement of each Pointholder, partner
and officer of the Applicant; provided, the financial statements
required by this Subsection shall be deemed confidential in character
and shall not be open to public inspection, but shall be available to
those city officials having jurisdiction over the provisions of this
Chapter, and to the Bureau of Gambling Control and the California
Gambling Control Commission; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

   G.   The type and nature of the Card Games proposed to be played, and
a statement by the Applicant that said Games are not prohibited or made
unlawful by the Penal Code or other provisions of State law, as they now
exist or as they are amended in the future, or this Chapter; [Amended by
Ord. No. 301, § E, adopted 9/26/95; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2,
adopted 12/13/23.]

   H.   The number of tables or other units to be placed, employed or
used; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]

   I.   A description of any other business conducted or proposed to be
conducted at the same location; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]

   J.   A statement that the Applicant understands that the application
shall be considered by the City Council only after a full investigation
and report have been made by the City Manager; [Ord. No. 249, § 030,
adopted 9/22/92.]

   K.   A statement that the Applicant understands and agrees that any
business or activity conducted or operated under any License issued
under such application shall be operated in full conformity with all the
laws of the state and the laws and regulations of the City applicable
thereto, and that any violation of any such laws or regulations in such
place of business, or in connection therewith, shall render any License
therefor subject to disciplinary action, including, but not limited to,
fines, suspension or revocation; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

   L.   A statement that Applicant, and each Pointholder thereof, has
applied for, or obtained a Gambling Establishment and Owner License from
the California Gambling Control Commission, with proof thereof; [Ord.
No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted
12/13/23.]

   M.   A statement that the Applicant has read the provisions of this
Chapter, and particularly the provisions of this Section, and
understands the same. [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]

5.16.040   Reserved.

5.16.050   License Fees and Deposits.

No application for a License shall be accepted or processed unless
accompanied by a filing and processing fee of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), which shall not be refundable to Applicant. In the event
Applicant successfully obtains a License in accordance with the terms
and provisions of this Chapter, Applicant may apply and receive credit
for said ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) of said filing and processing
fee toward the payment of the gross revenue license fees payable
pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.16.070, less administrative
costs, environmental costs and all other like costs expended by the City
in conjunction with the processing and investigation of the application.

[Ord. No. 249, § 050, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.060   Approval of the Pointholder Fee.

No application for approval of Pointholder status shall be accepted or
processed unless accompanied by a filing and processing fee of three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00) for each Pointholder making application for
approval. No part of said three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) shall be
refundable to Applicant.

[Ord. No. 249, § 060, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.16.070   Gross Revenue License Fees.

   The Applicant shall pay the following fees to the City.

   A.   A quarterly license fee of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00),
plus four hundred dollars ($400.00) for each gaming table in excess of
fourteen (14), said license fee to be paid in advance for each calendar
quarter no later than the fifteenth (15th) day of the first month of
that quarter. [Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

   B.   In addition to the fees in Subsection (A) of this Section, a
minimum quarterly permit fee of six thousand dollars ($6,000.00), said
fee to be paid by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following the
end of the calendar quarter. The quarterly permit fee will be one
percent (1%) of gross revenue, not to exceed the amount listed on the
quarterly permit fee schedule. [Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

   C.   Permit Fee Schedule per Quarter, effective December 1, 2022.

 

  ------------------------- -------------------------------------------
  Quarterly Gross Revenue   Permit Fee
  $2,000,000 - $3,000,000   $6,000 + 3.0% of excess over $2,000,000
  $3,000,000 - $4,000,000   $36,000 + 3.5% of excess over $3,000,000
  $4,000,000 - $5,000,000   $71,000 + 4.0% of excess over $4,000,000
  $5,000,000 and over       $111,000 + 5.0% of excess over $5,000,000
  ------------------------- -------------------------------------------

 

[Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

   D.   Statement of Revenue. Each Licensee shall file with the City
before the fifteenth (15th) day of each calendar quarter, a statement
under oath, showing the true and correct amount of gross revenue derived
from the Card Game business licensed by the Licensees issued to or held
by such Licensee for the preceding calendar quarter. Such statement
shall be accompanied by the payment of the correct amount of Permit Fee
due and owing in accordance with the provisions of Subsections B. and C.
of this Section, and such sums correctly reflecting the quarterly fees
payable for the preceding quarter shall be accepted by the City,
subject, however, to the right of the City to audit the matters referred
to in the statement, to determine the correctness of the figures as set
forth in such statement, and the amount payable to City pursuant to the
provisions of Subsections B. and C. of this Section.

      In addition to the foregoing, a certification shall be attached to
the statement, or included therein, which certification or declaration
shall be substantially in the following form:

      "I hereby declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is
true and correct."

               Licensee, Managing Partner or Owner (strike out the title
which is not applicable)

[Ord. No. 347, § C, adopted 4/14/98; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2,
adopted 12/13/23.]

   E.   Audit of Records. The books, records and accounts of any Card
Club may be audited by the City. Such an audit shall be performed by a
qualified accountant selected by the City Manager and approved by the
City Council. Any information obtained pursuant to the provisions of
this Section or any statement filed by the Licensees shall be deemed
confidential and shall not be subject to public inspection except as
required by law or in connection with the enforcement of the provisions
of this Chapter, but shall be available to persons charged by law with
the administration of the provisions of this Chapter or pursuant to the
order of any court of competent jurisdiction. [Amended by Ord. No. 347,
§ D, adopted 4/14/98.]

   F.   Refusal to Display Records. Any failure or refusal of any such
Licensee to make and file any statement as required within the time
required, or to pay any sums due by way of License Fees when the same
are due and payable in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter,
or to permit inspection of such books, records and accounts of such
Licensee as are authorized by this Chapter, shall be full and sufficient
grounds for suspension and revocation of the License of any such
Licensee.

[Amended by Ord. No. 347, § E, adopted 4/14/98; Ord. No. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]

5.16.080   Investigations and Reports.

   A.   Investigations Required. Whenever an application has been filed
with the City Manager for a License pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter, the City Manager shall make an investigation, which may
include, but is not limited to, the following:

      1.   A full and complete investigation of the Applicant (including
Pointholders, partners and officers, if any);

      2.   A full and complete investigation as to the type of tables or
units to be used at, or in connection with, the proposed business, and
the rules for and type of Games proposed to be played, which
investigation shall also include the proposed locations of the tables or
other units in, within, or about the proposed place of business; and

      3.   A determination that the Applicant, and each Pointholder
thereof, has obtained, prior to City Council action on the application,
a valid license from the California Gambling Control Commission.

   B.   Reports Required. The City Manager shall make such investigation
within thirty (30) days from the date of submission of a completed
application, and shall report to the City Council with reference thereto
at the end of said thirty (30) day period. The City Manager shall make
investigations as to all matters within his/her jurisdiction concerning
the public health, welfare and safety as may be concerned with such
application.

[Ord. No. 249, § 080, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.090   City Council Consideration of Application.

   A.   Consideration and Decision by City Council. Upon presentation
and recommendation by the City Manager, the City Council shall consider
the License application. The City Council may, in its discretion, decide
to grant or deny the License. The decision of the City Council shall be
final.

   B.   License Conditions. Any such License granted by the City Council
shall be deemed issued subject to all the terms, conditions, and
provisions of this Chapter, as well as all applicable laws of the City,
State and Federal governments; the City Council may impose additional
conditions as may be reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with this
Chapter. In the event the City issues a conditional License, the
conditional License shall be deemed effective upon the satisfaction of
all conditions of approval.

[Ord. No. 249, § 090, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.100   Denial of Application.

The City Council may deny issuance of any License under the provisions
of this Chapter in any of the following cases:

   A.   If the proposed business or activity to be operated is or will
be in violation of any Federal, State or City law or regulation; or

   B.   If the Games for which a License is applied are unlawful; or

   C.   If the Applicant, and each Pointholder thereof, has not first
applied for an obtained a valid license from the California Gambling
Control Commission; or

   D.   If any Applicant has made any false statement in the application
or as to any other information presented as part of the application
process; or

   E.   If any Applicant does not have the financial capability or
business organization to operate a Card Club in a manner which would
adequately protect the patrons of the Card Club and the citizens of the
community,

[Ord. No. 249, § 100, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.110   Location of Card Club.

A Card Club shall be located in a district designated for Card-Room use
in accordance with the Adelanto Zoning Code.

[Amended by Ord. No. 349, § 3, adopted 6/9/98; Ord. No. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.120   Expiration of Licenses; Renewal.

   A.   Expiration. Licenses may be granted for a maximum duration of
ten (10) years.

   B.   Renewal. Prior to expiration, Licensees may apply for renewal of
Licenses. Renewal applications shall be processed in the same manner as
a new application for a Card Club License.

   C.   All licenses issued by the City shall expire by operation of law
if the Licensee fails to commence operations upon the later of: (1)
twelve (12) months from the date of the issuance of the License; or (2)
the date of the adoption of this section. Upon a showing of Licensee’s
good faith efforts to commence operations, the City Manager may extend
the time for a Licensee to commence operations.

[Ord. No. 249, § 120, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.130   Reserved.

5.16.140   Transfer and Assignment of Licenses.

Any transfer or assignment of any License shall be considered for all
purposes in the same manner as a new application for a Card Club License
in the City, and all the provisions of this Chapter applicable to new
and original applications shall apply.

[Ord. No. 249, § 140, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.150   Suspension and Revocation of Licenses; Fines.

   A.   General. All Licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter shall be subject to suspension or revocation in the time and
manner set forth in this Section.

   B.   Grounds. Any License issued pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter shall be suspended or revoked if it is found that in the time
and manner hereinafter described:

      1.   The California Gambling Control Commission has suspended or
revoked a Licensee's License; or

      2.   A Licensee has violated, or permitted, allowed or caused the
violation of any provision of this Chapter, any regulation issued
pursuant to this Chapter, or any state law or regulation relating to the
operation of a Card Club; or

      3.   A Licensee has failed to pay, when due and payable, any of
the License Fees or other fees provided for in this Title; or

      4.   A Licensee has permitted, allowed or caused any violation of
any condition of approval imposed upon the issuance of such License; or

      5.   A Licensee has made any fraudulent statement as to a material
fact on an application form, or as to any other information presented as
part of the application process.

   C.   Fines. In the event of a violation described in Subsection B.2.,
3., 4. or 5. of this Section, a fine, not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation, may be imposed on the Licensee in lieu of
suspension or revocation.

   D.   Action of City Manager. Whenever the City Manager has
information that a violation, constituting a ground for suspension,
revocation or fine has occurred, he/she shall forthwith investigate the
same. If he/she determines that such a violation has occurred, he/she
shall forthwith set the matter for consideration by the City Council at
its next most convenient meeting. The City Manager shall give notice to
the Licensee of the time and the place of the hearing before the City
Council, not less than five (5) days in advance of the date set for such
hearing.

   E.   Hearing. At the time set for such hearing, the City Council
shall hear the evidence presented by the City Manager, or his/her
designee, purporting to show that grounds exist for suspension,
revocation or a fine; thereafter, the City Council shall permit the
Licensee, and any other interested person, to present such evidence as
may be relevant to dispute the existence of such facts. The City Council
may continue the hearing from time to time. If it is satisfied that
probable cause for revocation exists, and that continued operation of
the Card Club jeopardizes, or threatens to jeopardize, the public
welfare, the City Council may suspend the License pending the conclusion
of the hearing.

   F.   Decision of City Council. If based upon the evidence presented,
the City Council finds that facts are presented which constitute grounds
for suspension or revocation, it shall suspend or revoke the License or,
in lieu of revocation or suspension, in the event of a violation
described in Subsection B.2., 3., 4. or 5. of this Section, shall impose
a fine, not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). If it finds
that such facts are not present, the City Council shall dismiss the
proceedings. The decision of the City Council shall be final and
conclusive.

[Ord. No. 249, § 150, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.160   Rules and Regulations.

The following rules and regulations are established and promulgated by
the City Council with reference to Card Clubs, Card Rooms and Card Games
for which Licenses are issued under the provisions of this Chapter.
Licensees holding or obtaining Licenses under the provisions of this
Chapter, shall, in writing, agree to be bound by and observe each and
all of the provisions of this Chapter relating to such Licenses.

 

2024 S-45   5-56

City of Adelanto Municipal Code   Title 5 - Business Licenses and
Regulations

   RULE NO. 1: No Licensee shall use, operate or permit the use or
operation of more tables or units than allowed pursuant to its License.

   RULE NO. 2:

   A.   No Licensee shall permit any person to play in any Game licensed
by the provisions of this Chapter at any time while such person appears
to be, or, in the opinion of the Licensee or its duly authorized agents
or employees, is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs,
and no person who is under, or who appears to be under, the influence of
intoxicating liquor or drugs shall play in any such Game.

   B.   No Licensee shall permit any person to enter the premises while
such person appears to be, or, in the opinion of the Licensee, or its
duly authorized agents or employees, is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or drugs.

   RULE NO. 3: Each Licensee shall make available to any patron or
potential patron of the Card Club, written players’ house rule, in
printed form, that have been filed with and approved by the City
Manager. Except in a duly authorized tournament, no Licensee shall
permit any person playing in any of the Games licensed by this Chapter
to make any individual bet or wager in excess of the maximum bets set
forth for the particular Game as specified in the players’ house rules.

   RULE NO. 4: No Licensee shall operate or use any table or unit or
manage, conduct or carry on any business or activity licensed by this
Chapter after the time that such license issued by the City has been or
is expired, suspended or revoked pursuant to this Chapter.

   RULE NO. 5: Each and all of the Games conducted or operated in the
Card Club pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall be conducted
and operated in full conformity with, and subject to, all the provisions
of all applicable laws in existence in this State.

   RULE NO. 6: No Licensee shall permit or allow any person under the
age of twenty-one (21) years to play in any Game licensed hereunder, or
for any non-employee under the age of twenty-one (21) years to be
present at any time in any area of the Card Club in which Card Games are
being played.

[Ord. No. 249, § 160, adopted 9/22/92.]

   RULE NO. 7: The only Games permitted to be played in a licensed club
shall be the Card Games as defined in Section 5.16.010 (Subsections L.
and T.). [Ord. No. 249, Section 160, amended by Ord. No. 301, § F,
adopted 9/26/95; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

   RULE NO. 8: The playing of all Games provided for in this Chapter
shall be confined to all areas designated as “Card Rooms” which shall be
located on the first or ground floor of a licensed Card Club, and no
playing of any Game provided for or permitted by this Chapter shall be
permitted at any other location of such premises. [Ord. No. 249, § 160,
adopted 9/22/92.]

   RULE NO. 9: A Card Club shall be open for inspection during all hours
to the City Manager, or his/her duly authorized representative, without
a search warrant. The Card Club may be open twenty-four (24) hours a day
and seven (7) days a week. [Ord. No. 249, § 160, amended by Ord. No.
349, § 1, adopted 6/9/98; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted
12/13/23.]

   RULE NO. 10: A Card Club may be licensed to operate not more than
thirty-one (31) tables. [Amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23]

   RULE NO. 11: A Card Club must be located in a commercial or mixed use
zone. [Amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23]

   RULE NO. 12: If a Licensee employs dealers for the convenience of the
players so that no player deals, while so dealing, the dealer shall:

   A.   Other than dealing the cards and making collections as set forth
in this Section, not participate in anyway in the Game, not bet, and not
take any percentage of the winnings;

   B.   Collect the established seat rental fee or other playing fee
provided for in Section 5.16.170 and segregate and secure said amounts
for collection purposes; and

   C.   Comply with regulations promulgated by the City Manager
concerning identification standards.

   RULE NO. 13: The giving of credit or lending of anything of value to
a patron and the cashing of checks of patrons shall be permitted only if
the Licensee's written check-cashing and credit policies are submitted
to and approved by the City Manager. No credit of any kind shall be
extended to city employees or officers.

   RULE NO. 14: Licensees holding valuables for safekeeping may do so
only under the following conditions:

   A.   Only cash may be held; no other valuables, including coins or
paper money worth more than face value, may be held.

   B.   No person may deposit money for safekeeping without the written
approval of a managing employee of the Licensee. Money may be deposited
or withdrawn only by the person named on the account. Accurate records
of all deposits and withdrawals shall be kept for a period of not less
than two (2) years. No person shall hold more than one (1) such account
at any one (1) Card Club.

   C.   The actual deposits held and the records of all transactions
shall be available for inspection by the City Manager upon demand.

[Ord. No. 249, § 160, adopted 9/22/92.]

   RULE NO. 15: The Licensee shall provide reasonable security in order
to safeguard the property and well-being of those who patronize the Card
Club as well as all employees. The Licensee shall prepare a security
plan and submit it to the City Manager for approval by the City Manager
and Chief of Police. [Added by Ord. No. 349, § 2, adopted 6/9/98.]

   RULE NO. 16: There shall be no wagering limits at any Card Club in
Adelanto. The wagering limit may be determined exclusively by the Card
Club.

[Added by Ord. No. 349, § 5, adopted 6/9/98; Ord. No. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]

5.16.170   Seat Rental and Other Playing Fees.

The Licensee shall determine, set and post, within the Card Club in a
public place, seat rental and other playing fees charged to persons
playing in Games authorized by this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 249, § 170, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.180   Application for Employment Identification Card.

   A.   It is unlawful for any licensed Card Club in the City to employ
any person who does not have a valid, unsuspended and unrevoked
employment identification card, bearing the employee’s photograph.

   B.   Any person wishing to obtain an employment identification card
shall file an application with the City Manager. The application shall
be complete in all respects and shall include photographing and
fingerprinting. A processing fee, in an amount set by the City Council,
shall be paid to the city for such fingerprinting and photographing,
issuance of the identification card, and for a background investigation
to be conducted by the City Manager or his/her designee.

   C.   Each application for an employment identification card by any
person wishing to obtain employment in the Card Club shall contain, in
addition to such other information as the City Manager shall require,
the following current information under penalty of perjury:

      1.   The true name and any other name by which the proposed
employee has been known and all residence addresses during the past five
(5) years;

      2.   Current occupation or employment;

      3.   Employment during the past five (5) years;

      4.   Physical characteristics, including, age, date of birth,
height, weight, and color of hair and eyes;

      5.   Driver’s license and Social Security numbers;

      6.   A history of all arrests and convictions for any felony or
misdemeanor offense, other than traffic violations, and of violations of
any municipal codes or ordinances within the past ten (10) years; and

      7.   A current full face photo.

   D.   The City Manager shall process the application and may approve,
conditionally approve, or deny such application. The City Manager may
deny an application for an identification card in the following cases:

      1.   If the Applicant has been convicted of any crime punishable
as a felony;

      2.   If the Applicant has been convicted of an offense involving
dishonesty;

      3.   If the Applicant has engaged in bookmaking, loan sharking, or
other illegal gambling activities or has been convicted of an offense
involving such activities;

      4.   If the Applicant is not a person of good character, integrity
and honesty;

      5.   If the Applicant has made any false statement in the
application or as to any other information presented as part of the
application process; or

      6.   If the approval of the Applicant would be inimical to the
interests of legitimate gaming.

      If an application is denied, the Licensee may appeal such denial
on behalf of the Applicant by written notice to the City Manager, who
shall cause a hearing to be held within thirty (30) days after such
notice. The City Manager, or his/her designee, may approve,
conditionally approve, or deny such appeal. The hearing officer’s
decision shall be final and conclusive. The cost of such hearing shall
be borne by the Licensee.

   E.   An employment identification card may be suspended or revoked
under the following circumstances:

      1.   The commission of any act which would have been grounds for
the denial of an identification card pursuant to Subsection D. of this
Section; or

      2.   The violation of any condition imposed in issuing such
identification card. The identification card may be immediately
suspended by the City Manager if the offense is such to cause an
immediate threat to the public welfare. Such immediate suspension shall
remain in effect for seven (7) days or until a final decision is
rendered by a hearing officer appointed by the City Manager, whichever
occurs first.

      The hearing officer may suspend or revoke an identification card
after a hearing following five (5) days notice to the employee. The
employee shall be permitted to submit any relevant evidence to the
hearing officer. The decision of the hearing officer shall be final, and
all costs shall be borne by the employee.

   F.   Unless specifically exempted by the City Manager in writing,
each employee, at all times while acting within the scope of his/her
employment on the Card Club premises, shall wear in a prominently
visible place upon his/her person said identification card.

   G.   The information received by the City pursuant to the provisions
of this Section shall be treated as confidential and shall be accessible
only to those City officials having jurisdiction over the provisions of
this Chapter, and to management personnel of the Licensee.

[Ord. No. 249, § 180, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.190   Pointholders - Applications for Sale or Transfer of Points.

   A.   It is unlawful for any Licensee or any person having any
interest whatsoever or at all in the ownership of a Card Club, whether
legal or equitable, or as trustor or trustee, or of whatsoever kind or
character, to sell or transfer such points and/or interest without the
prior, written consent and permission of the City Council.

   B.   Sales and transfers cannot be approved any earlier than five (5)
years from the date the License is issued.

   C.   Any person desiring to sell, transfer, assign, or otherwise
hypothecate any point or interest in a Card Club duly licensed pursuant
to the provisions of this Chapter shall file with the City Manager a
written application for permission to transfer such interest, as is
hereinafter described. Each such application shall contain and clearly
and truthfully set forth, under oath and/or affirmation, and show, in
addition to such other information as the City Manager and/or the City
Council may require, the following information:

      1.   The date of the application;

      2.   The true name of the Applicant and proposed purchaser or
transferee, and any other name by which the proposed purchaser or
transferee has been known;

      3.   The status of the proposed purchaser or transferee as being
an individual, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture,
trustor or trustee;

      4.   The residence and business address for the last five (5)
years of the proposed purchaser or transferee, if an individual;

      5.   If the transferee is other than an individual, the true name,
residence and business address for the last five (5) years of each of
the proposed purchaser or transferee Pointholders, partners and
officers;

      6.   A full and complete financial statement of the proposed
purchaser or transferee, whether it is an individual, corporation,
partnership or other entity, and a full and complete financial statement
of each proposed purchaser or transferee Pointholder, partner or
officer; provided, the financial statements required by this Subsection
shall be deemed confidential in character and shall not be open to
public inspection, but shall be available to those city officials having
jurisdiction over the provisions of this Chapter;

      7.   The name of the licensed Card Club for which a transfer of
interest or point is sought;

      8.   The number of points and/or the nature of interest sought to
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise hypothecated; and

      9.   A statement that the proposed purchaser has applied for or
has been granted a license issued by the California Gambling Control
Commission.

      10.   A statement that the application will be considered by the
City Council only after a full investigation and report has been made by
the City Manager and the report of investigation forwarded to the City
Council.

   D.   Investigation Required. Whenever an application pursuant to the
provisions of this Section has been filed with the City for a sale or
transfer pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the City Manager
shall promptly and diligently make an investigation and shall report to
the City Council with reference thereto within thirty (30) days from the
filing of the application, as follows:

      1.   A full and complete investigation of the proposed purchaser
or transferee (including the proposed Pointholders, partners or
officers), including a determination that the proposed purchaser has
applied for or obtained a valid Gambling Establishment and Owner license
issued by the California Gambling Control Commission;

      2.   Concurrently with the filing of the application, each person
named in the application as a proposed purchaser or transferee, or
Pointholder, partner or officer thereof, shall be fingerprinted by the
City Manager or his/her designee. No application shall be deemed filed
until the fingerprinting is completed.

   E.   License Fees. Each such sale or transfer application shall be
accompanied by a processing fee in the amount as established by Section
5.16.060, to cover the cost of the investigation. The fee shall be the
property of and be retained by the City, whether the application for
sale or transfer is granted or denied.

   F.   Granting or Denial of Application.

      1.   Whenever an application for such a sale or transfer is
presented to the City Council, the City Council shall consider such
application on the same basis as is applicable to a new License
application.

      2.   The City Council shall not approve an application if the
proposed purchaser has not first obtained a valid Gambling Establishment
and Owner license issued by the California Gambling Control Commission.
Otherwise, the City Council may, in its sole discretion, either approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the application, with or without
specification of grounds. The decision of the City Council shall be
final and conclusive.

      3.   The Applicant shall agree as part of this application that
the sole and exclusive discretion as to the granting or denial of any
such application shall be vested in the City Council.

[Ord. No. 249, § 190, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.200   Pointholders - Updating of Investigations - Divestments.

   A.   All Owners and Pointholders in any Card Club shall have their
background investigations updated every two (2) years. Such updating
shall consist of a check by teletype to Criminal Investigation and
Identification in Sacramento, California, and the filing by each
Licensee, Owner or Pointholder, and partner or officer thereof, of
updated financial statements.

   B.   Any person having any interest whatsoever or at all in the
ownership of a Card Club, whether legal or equitable, or a trustor or
trustee, or of whatsoever kind or character, who has not previously
submitted to the procedure required under Section 5.16.190.C. through
F., shall file, as a prerequisite to the continued holding of an
ownership interest, the application to be investigated, shall pay the
fee, and shall be reviewed by the City Manager and City Council as
provided in that section for persons applying for new ownership
interest. If the City Council denies any application, within one hundred
twenty (120) days after the receipt of a notice of such denial, said
person shall divest himself/herself of such ownership interest. The City
Attorney may invoke appropriate civil remedies to enforce compliance.

   C.   1.   The approval of an Owner or Pointholder may be revoked by
the City Council, after a hearing held not less than thirty (30) days
after notice has been given to the Pointholder, if the City Council
finds that:

         a.   The Attorney General of the State has suspended or revoked
the Owner’s or Pointholder s registration under the Gaming Registration
Act of the State, or after issuing a conditional registration, fails or
refuses to issue, a valid registration; or

         b.   An Owner or Pointholder has violated, or permitted,
allowed, or caused the violation of, any provision of this Chapter, any
regulation issued pursuant to this Chapter, any condition of approval
imposed upon the issuance of the Card Club License, or any State law or
regulation relating to the operation of a Card Club; or

         c.   An Owner or Pointholder has made any fraudulent statement
as to a material fact on an application form or as to any other
information presented as part of the application process; or

         d.   An Owner or Pointholder is convicted of any crime
involving illegal gambling or gaming activities or moral turpitude, or
is convicted of a crime punishable as a felony.

      2.   The City Council, in making its decision, shall consider any
mitigating factor presented by the Owner or Pointholder. The decision of
the City Council shall be final.

      3.   The ownership interest shall be divested within one hundred
twenty (120) days after the notice of revocation. The City Manager may
extend the time to divest the ownership interest upon a showing of good
faith. The City Attorney may invoke appropriate civil remedies to
enforce compliance.

      4.   No person required to divest an ownership interest in a Card
Club following a revocation of approval shall transfer such ownership
interest to his/her spouse, child, sibling, or parent, or to his/her
spouse's child, sibling or parent, without the approval of the City
Council.

[Ord. No. 249, § 200, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.210   Unlawful Act.

   A.   Unlawful Locations. It is unlawful for any person to play, or
permit the playing, of any Game regulated or referred to by the
provisions of this Chapter at any place within the City, except upon a
parcel of real property located entirely within the City limits that is
designated for Card-Room use in accordance with the Adelanto Zoning
Code, and operated under a permit and licensed under licenses held or
issued pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. [Ord. No. 249, §
210A, adopted 9/22/92; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

   B.   Unlawful Games. It is unlawful for any person to play in, or
permit the playing of, any Game at any place licensed pursuant to this
Chapter which Game is not permitted by the provisions of this Chapter as
amended, or in any Game played in violation of this Chapter. [Ord. No.
249, § 210.B, adopted 9/22/92; amended by Ord. No. 301, § G, adopted
9/26/95.]

   C.   City Employees and Officers. It is unlawful to provide credit of
any kind, or to provide gratuities, goods or services in, upon or about
the Card Club to City employees or officers at reduced or no cost.

   D.   Operation of Card Clubs. It is unlawful for any operator of a
Card Club permitted under this Chapter, or for any owner, principal,
employee or agent of a Card Club permitted under this Chapter:

      1.   To knowingly permit any unlawful activity to take place upon
the premises of the Card Club or to fail to take reasonable steps to
prevent such activities from taking place, including, but not limited
to, illegal gambling activities and cheating. The Licensee shall have
the power to formulate reasonable policies and procedures to control
such activities, and these policies and procedures may be published in
the players’ house rules.

      2.   To permit any employee on duty to play in any of the Games
authorized by this Chapter other than pursuant to policies of the
Licensee that are disclosed in the players’ house rules.

   E.   Cheating. It is unlawful for any person to attempt to gain any
unfair advantage for any player in a licensed Card Game through a
fraudulent technique or mechanical or electrical device. Prohibited
cheating techniques include, but are not limited to dealing, drawing,
distributing or burning any playing cards other than the top card of a
deck; prearranging or shuffling any playing cards in a manner other than
in a random manner; altering in any way the shape, appearance, texture
or number of cards to play; switching any card; or using any apparatus
or method to gain information not available to other players.

[Ord. No. 249, § 210, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.220   Exclusion of Persons from Card Clubs.

   A Licensee may exclude or eject from the premises any person who has
been engaged in or been convicted of bookmaking, loan sharking, the sale
of controlled substances, illegal gambling activities, cheating,
prostitution, or whose presence in or about such Card Club would be
inimical to the interest of legitimate gaming. No person shall be
excluded or ejected solely on the basis of a protected classification.

[Ord. No. 249, § 220, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.230   Administration of Chapter by City Manager.

The City Manager shall formulate in writing all necessary rules and
regulations to implement and administer the provisions of this Chapter,
and shall do all things necessary and proper to carry out the spirit and
intent of this Chapter, including, but not limited to:

   A.   Preserving and keeping all documents identified in this Chapter
as confidential documents so that the contents thereof shall not become
known except to persons required by law to effect the administration or
enforcement of this Chapter;

   B.   Promulgating and/or requiring prior approval of accounting
procedures to be utilized by Licensees to ensure accurate reporting of
Card Club revenues; and

   C.   Delegating the duties and powers vested in the City Manager by
this Chapter to appropriate City employees or officers.

[Ord. No. 249, § 230, adopted 9/22/92; reiterated by Ord. No. 347, § 2,
adopted 4/14/98; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended by Ord. No.
646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

5.16.240   Violations.

It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this Chapter. In the event of any violation, the City Manager shall
promptly notify the Licensee in writing of all of the facts upon which
the violation is based, detailing with specificity the nature and extent
of the facts that relate to the alleged violation. As set forth in the
notice, the Licensee shall have a reasonable time to cure the violation.
Upon a showing of good cause, the City Manager may extend the time
within which the violation shall be cured. All remedies and penalties
prescribed by this Chapter, or that are available under any other
provision of the Municipal Code and any other provision of law or
equity, are cumulative.

[Ord. No. 249, § 240, adopted 9/22/92; reiterated by Ord. No. 347, § 2,
adopted 4/14/98; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended by Ord. No.
646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]

Chapter 5.20
PRIVATE PATROL SERVICES AND PRIVATE PATROLMEN

Sections:

   5.20.010   Registration

   5.20.020   Proof of Registration

5.20.010   Registration.

It is unlawful for any private patrol service to employ or have
associated with it in the conduct of its business any private person who
is not currently registered pursuant to Business and Professions Code
Section 7581(e). Current registration shall be presented to any law
enforcement or code enforcement officer upon request.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.20.020   Proof of Registration.

Each applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Collector that he
or she possesses a valid license under the Private Investigator Act of
the State of California. A current copy of the State license shall be
filed with the application.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.24
BINGO

Sections:

   5.24.010   License Required

   5.24.020   License Application

   5.24.030   Investigation

   5.24.040   Operation of Bingo Game

   5.24.050   Financial Interest

   5.24.060   Profits

   5.24.070   Participation Limited to Those Present

   5.24.080   Bingo Game Open to Public

   5.24.090   Value of Prizes

   5.24.100   Minors Prohibited from Participation

   5.24.110   Display of License

   5.24.120   License not Transferable

   5.24.130   Disciplinary Action - Grounds

5.24.010   License Required.

No person other than an eligible organization may conduct bingo games.
Such eligible organizations shall not conduct bingo games without first
having secured a license to conduct such games from the City.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.24.020   License Application.

   A.   Applicants for a bingo license shall file a written, signed and
acknowledged application with the Collector including all information
required by Section 5.04.070. In addition to the information required by
Section 5.04.070 the following information shall be provided:

      1.   The dates, hours and location where the bingo games will be
operated;

      2.   The name or names of the person or persons having the
management or supervision of said games;

      3.   Whether food and beverages will be available;

      4.   Such other reasonable information as may be required as to
the identity or character of the applicant, manager or members of
applicant operating the games.

   B.   The application shall be accompanied by a copy of the tax exempt
status determination issued by the State Franchise Tax Board to the
applicant organization showing the applicant organization is exempt
under the provisions of Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 23701(a),
23701(b), 23701(d), 23701(e), 23701(f), 23701(g), and 23701(1).

   C.   The applicant shall submit with the application a declaration
under penalty of perjury of a duly authorized officer or representative
of the organization, which states that the applicant organization owns
or leases the property on which the bingo games are to be held and that
such property is used by such organization for an office or for purposes
for which the organization is organized. Said declaration shall also
indicate that the proceeds of such games will only be used for
charitable purposes, except as provided in this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.24.030   Investigation.

   After receiving the application, the Collector shall refer the
application to the Building, Planning, Fire and Police Departments for
investigation. The departments shall make reports of their findings,
together with a recommendation as to whether or not the applicant shall
be granted a license, to the Collector within ten (10) working days
after the application was referred. The license shall be issued for a
specified location.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.24.040   Operation of Bingo Game.

A bingo game shall be conducted only on property owned or leased by the
eligible organization and used by it for an office or for performance of
the purposes for which the organization is organized. The property owned
or leased by the organization need not be used or leased exclusively by
such organization. The bingo game shall be operated and staffed only by
members of the licensed organization which organized the game. Such
members shall not receive a profit, wage or salary from any bingo game.
Only the organization licensed to conduct a bingo game shall operate
such game or participate in the promotion, supervision or any other
phase of such game. Bingo games shall not be held on more than ten (10)
days in each calendar month nor for more than five (5) hours in any
twenty-four (24) hour period. No bingo shall be permitted between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.24.050   Financial Interest.

No person except the eligible organization licensed to conduct a bingo
game shall hold a financial interest in such game.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.24.060   Profits.

   A.   Non-profit Organizations Under Revenue and Taxation Code Section
23701(d). All profits derived from a bingo game by organizations exempt
from payment of the bank and corporation tax by Revenue and Taxation
Code Section 23701(d) shall be kept in a special fund or account and
shall not be commingled with any other fund or account. Such profits
shall be used only for charitable purposes.

   B.   Other Licensed Organizations. With respect to other licensed
organizations authorized to conduct bingo games, all proceeds derived
from a bingo game shall be kept in a special fund or account and shall
not be commingled with any other fund or account. Such proceeds shall be
used only for charitable purposes, except as follows:

      1.   Such proceeds may be used for prizes;

      2.   A portion of such proceeds, not to exceed twenty percent
(20%) of the proceeds after the deduction for prizes, or two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) per month, whichever is less, may be sued for rental
of property, overhead and administrative expenses.

   C.   Records. Records required by this Chapter shall be retained by
licensee for a period of three (3) years. Licensee’s records shall be
available for inspection by the Chief of Police or designee or City
officials upon demand. It is unlawful and a violation of this Chapter to
fail to retain these records or make same available for inspection upon
demand.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.24.070   Participation Limited to Those Present.

No person shall be allowed to participate in a bingo game, unless the
person is physically present at the time and place in which the bingo
game is being conducted.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.24.080   Bingo Game Open to Public.

All bingo games shall be open to the public, not just to the members of
the licensed organization.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.24.090   Value of Prizes.

The total value of prizes awarded during the conduct of any bingo game
shall not exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in cash or kind, or
both, for each separate game which is held.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.24.100   Minors Prohibited from Participation.

No minor shall be allowed to participate in any bingo game. Every
licensee shall display the license issued by the City in a conspicuous
place in the premises where the bingo games are conducted.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.24.110   Display of License.

Every licensee shall display the license issued by the City in a
conspicuous place in the premises where the bingo games are conducted.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.24.120   License not Transferable.

Each license issued hereunder shall be issued to an eligible
organization and for a specific location and shall in no event be
transferable from one (1) organization or location to another.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.24.130   Disciplinary Action - Grounds.

In addition to the provisions of Chapter 5.04, the following shall be
considered grounds for denial, revocation or other disciplinary action:

   A.   Made any inaccurate, false, misleading or fraudulent statements,
has failed to fully disclose all required information in an application
or to provide all required documentation in support thereof; or

   B.   Violated any provision of this Title or of any statute relating
to the permitted activity; or

   C.   Been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude; or

   D.   A bad moral character, intemperate habits or a bad reputation
for truth, honesty or integrity; or

   E.   Committed any unlawful, false, fraudulent, deceptive or
dangerous act while conducting permitted bingo games; or

   F.   Conducted the permitted bingo game in a manner contrary to the
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the public; or

   G.   Failed to comply with zoning, building, fire and environmental
health services regulations of the City.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.28
DANCE HALLS

Sections:

   5.28.010   License Required

   5.28.020   Application and Reasons for Denial of License

   5.28.030   Issuance and Posting of License

   5.28.040   Investigation

   5.28.050   Hours of Operation

   5.28.060   Employment

   5.28.070   Regulations

5.28.010   License Required.

It is unlawful for any person to commence or operate or permit the
operation of a public dance or a public dance hall without first
obtaining a license to do so pursuant to this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.28.020   Application and Reasons for Denial of License.

Application for such license shall be made to the Collector in writing
and shall state the names and addresses of the persons having authority
and control over the location and the owners of the location and the
place where the dance, or dance hall is to be conducted. Upon receipt of
such application, together with the license fee, as in this Title
provided, the Collector shall thoroughly investigate the application and
shall deny the same if:

   A.   The applicant, whether an individual, any partner, corporate
officer or director, has been convicted of a felony or of any crime
involving moral turpitude;

   B.   The structures or real property where the applicant intends to
conduct business pursuant to a license do not comply with all applicable
laws or are injurious to the public health or safety; or

   C.   The applicant has previously had a dance hall license forfeited,
suspended or revoked under the provisions of this Chapter or any City
ordinance.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.28.030   Issuance and Posting of License.

   A.   Upon approval of such license by the Collector, the Collector
shall issue a license to the applicant; such license shall set forth the
name of the applicant and the place where the dance or dance hall is to
be conducted. Each license shall be nontransferable, shall be posted in
a conspicuous place on the premises in respect to which it is issued and
shall be exhibited to any law enforcement officer or City official upon
demand.

   B.   Each license issued hereunder is separate and distinct and no
person shall seek to exercise the privileges granted thereunder except
the person to whom it is issued and at the specific place for which it
was issued.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.28.040   Investigation.

The Collector may, upon its own decision and shall upon the verified
complaint in writing of any person, investigate the conduct of any such
dance or dance hall and shall have power to temporarily suspend or
permanently revoke a license issued hereunder in accordance with this
Chapter.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.28.050   Hours of Operation.

It is unlawful for any person, corporation or association of persons to
operate, conduct or carry on a public dance, or a public dance hall, or
for any person to dance at any public dance or in any public dance hall,
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.28.060   Employment.

It is unlawful for any person, to employ anyone on a salary or on a
commission or for anything of value, directly or indirectly, whose
obligation, duty or business it is or shall be to dance with or act as a
dancing partner at any public dance or at any public dance hall. It is
further unlawful and a violation of this Chapter for anyone to engage in
such employment.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.28.070   Regulations.

It is unlawful for any person to operate, conduct or carry on a public
dance or a public dance hall in any manner which is detrimental to
public health, welfare or safety or which causes a disturbance of the
peace or a public nuisance.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.32
JUNK DEALERS, PAWNBROKERS, SECONDHAND DEALERS AND SALVAGE COLLECTORS

Sections:

   5.32.010   License Required

   5.32.020   Investigation

   5.32.030   Inspection

   5.32.040   Property

   5.32.050   Daily Reports and Purchase Forms

5.32.010   License Required.

Every junk dealer, pawnbroker, secondhand dealer and salvage collector
shall be licensed by the City and pay an annual license fee, in
accordance with Chapter 5.04.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.32.020   Investigation.

Upon receipt of a complete application with all required documentation
and fees, the Collector shall refer copies of the application to the
Building, Planning, Fire and Police Departments for investigation
concerning the applicant's business and character. These investigating
departments shall report their findings, together with their approval of
or objection to the issuance of a license to the Collector within ten
(10) business days of the referral. The Collector shall, upon receipt of
these reports and any recommendations either issue or deny the issuance
of the license.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.32.030   Inspection.

Every junk dealer, pawnbroker, secondhand dealer and salvage collector
shall hold and keep exposed any property acquired by them in the course
of their business for inspection on their business premises during
business hours.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.32.040   Property.

Junk dealers shall hold all personal property received as received
except automobile bodies until the expiration of three (3) days after
the submission of the daily report required by this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.32.050   Daily Reports and Purchase Forms.

   A.   Junk dealers, pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers licensed under
this Chapter shall report in writing to the Police Department, in a
manner as approved by the Police Department, all personal property
requiring reporting by this Chapter. The daily reports shall be
accompanied by a purchase form for each individual transaction. The
specific information required on the purchase form is as follows:

      1.   Dealer’s name, business, address and telephone number;

      2.   Date of purchase;

      3.   Seller’s name, description, residence address, vehicle
license number, driver’s license or county business license number;

      4.   Material category descriptions;

      5.   Weight of material, amount paid and time of payment;

      6.   Description and identification number of automobile and
automobile bodies. Such information may be provided by submission of a
vehicle report completed by the seller of any automobile or automobile
body. The vehicle report forms will be made available by the Police
Department.

   B.   The purchase forms and daily reports shall include a general
description as to the composition of scrap or junk. Products such as
castings, wire, tubing, pipe or similar items may be commonly described.
Nonferrous materials shall be reported and ferrous materials including
fence material, pipe, chain, machinery parts, foundry castings, cable,
automobiles and automobile bodies shall be reported.

   C.   Transactions totaling five dollars ($5.00) or less need not be
reported except for automobiles or automobile bodies, which may be
reported in accordance with Subsection A.6. of this Section.

   D.   Pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers shall make their reports in
compliance with the provisions of the Business and Professions Code
Section 21628 and Financial Code Section 21208.

   E.   Salvage collectors shall maintain purchase records.

   F.   The daily reports and purchase forms shall be written in the
English language in a clear and legible manner. The records required by
this Section shall be retained by the applicant for a period of three
(3) years and shall be available for inspection upon demand by any law
enforcement officer. The failure to complete, file and retain the
records required pursuant to Section 5.32.040 is a violation of this
Chapter and is unlawful.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.36
POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS

Sections:

   5.36.010   Public Welfare

   5.36.020   Prohibited Activities

   5.36.030   Exemptions

5.36.010   Public Welfare.

The City Council may refuse to grant a license for a pool and billiard
hall if, in the opinion of a majority of the Council, the establishment
and maintaining of a billiard hall or pool room would be contrary to the
public welfare of the neighborhood.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.36.020   Prohibited Activities.

The following activities shall be prohibited within pool and billiard
halls and rooms:

   A.   Gambling or possession of any gambling device;

   B.   Operating a pool or billiard hall between the hours of 12:00
midnight and 6:00 a.m.;

   C.   To allow any person under the age of eighteen (18) to be present
or remain in the billiard hall or pool room;

   D.   Not to allow at least one (1) door or window, of at least twenty
(20) square feet, through which the public may at all times see the
entire interior of any such pool hall, room or place during day time,
and where any light is therein at night time, and no obstruction of any
kind whatever shall be permitted.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.36.030   Exemptions.

This Chapter shall not apply to any bona fide lodge, club, society,
veterans’ organization or similar group having one (1) or more billiard
tables or pool tables on their private premises solely for the amusement
and entertainment of their members and guests, and where no fee is
charged for the use of such billiard tables or pool tables and the use
of such tables is not open to the public.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.40
CABLE, VIDEO AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDERS

Sections:

PART 1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS

   5.40.010   Purpose and Intent

   5.40.020   Defined Terms and Phrases

   5.40.030   Suspension and Waiver of Application Fee Deposits

PART 2.   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEMS

   5.40.040   Authority and Findings

   5.40.050   Franchise Terms and Conditions

   5.40.060   Franchise Applications and Renewal

   5.40.070   Contents of Cable Television Franchise Agreements

   5.40.080   Consumer Protection and Service Standards

PART 3.   OPEN VIDEO SYSTEMS

   5.40.090   Applicability

   5.40.100   Application Required

   5.40.110   Review of the Application

   5.40.120   Agreement Required

PART 4.   OTHER VIDEO AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES AND SYSTEMS

   5.40.130   Other Multichannel Video Programming Distributors

   5.40.140   Video Providers-Registration; Customer Service Standards

   5.40.150   Telecommunications Service Provided by Telephone
Corporations

PART 5.   USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY

   5.40.160   Findings; Policies and Procedures

PART 6.   VIOLATIONS; SEVERABILITY

   5.40.170   Violations; Enforcement

   5.40.180   Severability

   5.40.190   Application of Section

   5.40.200   Notice of Adoption

   5.40.210   Continuing Application of Ordinance No. 324

PART 1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS

5.40.010   Purpose and Intent.

   A.   The development of cable, video and telecommunications services
and systems may provide significant benefits for, and have substantial
impacts upon, the residents of the City.

   B.   Because of the complex and rapidly changing technology
associated with cable, video and telecommunications services and
systems, the public convenience, safety and general welfare can best be
served by the City’s exercise of its regulatory powers.

   C.   This Chapter adopts provisions that authorize the City to
regulate cable, video, and telecommunications service providers to the
extent authorized by Federal and State law, including but not limited to
the Federal Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, the Federal Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, the Federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996, applicable regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission, and applicable California statutes and
regulations.

   D.   The cable, video and telecommunications services that are
addressed in this Chapter include services provided by cable television
systems, open video systems, master antenna television systems,
satellite master antenna television systems, direct broadcast satellite
systems, multichannel multipoint distribution systems, local multipoint
distribution systems and other providers of video programming, whatever
their technology, as well as voice and data services provided by
telephone corporations.

   E.   The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to provide for the
attainment of the following objectives:

      1.   To enable the City to discharge its public trust in a manner
consistent with rapidly evolving Federal and State regulatory policies,
industry competition and technological development.

      2.   To authorize and to manage reasonable access to the City’s
public rights-of-way and public property for cable, video and
telecommunications purposes on a competitively neutral and
nondiscriminatory basis, and in a manner consistent with all applicable
Federal and State statutes and regulations.

      3.   To obtain fair and reasonable compensation for the City and
its residents for authorizing the private use of the public
rights-of-way and public property.

      4.   To promote competition in cable, video and telecommunications
services, minimize unnecessary local regulation of cable, video and
telecommunications service providers and encourage the delivery of
advanced and competitive cable, video and telecommunications services on
the broadest possible basis to local government and to the businesses,
institutions and residents of the City.

      5.   To establish clear local guidelines, standards and time
frames for the exercise of local authority with respect to the
regulation of cable, video and telecommunications service providers.

      6.   To encourage the deployment of advanced cable, video and
telecommunications infrastructure that satisfies local needs, delivers
enhanced services, and provides informed consumer choices in an evolving
cable, video and telecommunications marketplace.

      7.   To maintain and to enhance public, educational and
governmental programming opportunities that will enable local government
to communicate with its residents and to provide them with alternate
means of disseminating information.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.020   Defined Terms and Phrases.

The words, terms, phrases and their derivations set forth in this
Chapter have the meanings set forth below. Unless otherwise expressly
stated, words, terms and phrases not defined in this Chapter will be
given their meaning as used in Title 47 of the United States Code, as
amended, and, if not defined in that Code, their meaning as used in
Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Words used in the present
tense include the future tense, and words in the singular include the
plural number.

   A.   “Affiliate” means, when used in relation to any person, another
person who owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under
common ownership or control with, such person.

   B.   “Cable Service” means the one (1) way transmission to
subscribers of video programming, or other programming services, and
subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the selection or
use of that video programming or other programming service. For the
purposes of this definition, “video programming” means programming
provided by, or generally considered comparable to programming provided
by, a television broadcast station; and “other programming service”
means information that a cable system operator makes available to all
subscribers generally.

   C.   “Cable System,” or “Cable Communications System” or “Cable
Television System,” means a facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and
control equipment that is designed to provide cable service that
includes video programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers
within a community. The term “cable system” does not include:

      1.   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one (1) or more television broadcast stations;

      2.   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;

      3.   A facility of a common carrier that is subject, in whole or
in part, to the provisions of Title II of the Communications Act, except
that such facility will be considered a cable system (other than for
purposes specified in Communications Act Section 621(c)) to the extent
such facility is used in the transmission of video programming directly
to subscribers, unless the extent of such use is solely to provide
interactive on-demand services;

      4.   An open video system that complies with Communications Act
Section 653; or

      5.   Any facilities of an electric utility that are used solely
for operating its electric utility system.

   D.   “Cable System Operator” means any person or group of persons:

      1.   Who provides cable service over a cable system and directly
or through one (1) or more affiliates owns a significant interest in
that cable system; or

      2.   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of that cable system.

   E.   “City” means the City of Adelanto as represented by its City
Council or by any delegate acting within the scope of its delegated
authority.

   F.   “CFR” means the Code of Federal Regulations. Thus, the citation
of “47 CFR 80.1" refers to Title 47, Part 80, Section 1, of the Code of
Federal Regulations.

   G.   “Communications Act” means the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. §§ 153 et seq.), as amended by the Cable Communications Policy
Act of 1984, the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992, and the Telecommunications Act of 1996.

   H.   “FCC” or “Federal Communications Commission” means the Federal
administrative agency, or any lawful successor, that is authorized to
regulate telecommunications services and telecommunications service
providers on a national level.

   I.   “Franchise” means an initial authorization, or the renewal of an
initial authorization, granted by the City Council, whether such
authorization is designated as a franchise, agreement, permit, license,
resolution, contract, certificate or otherwise, that authorizes the
construction or operation of a cable system or an open video system.

   J.   “Franchise Fee” means any fee or assessment of any kind that is
authorized by State or Federal law to be imposed by the City on a
Grantee as compensation in the nature of rent for the Grantee’s use of
the public rights-of-way. The term “franchise fee” does not include:

      1.   Any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability
(including any such tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities
and cable operators or their services, but not including a tax, fee or
assessment which is unduly discriminatory against cable operators or
cable subscribers);

      2.   Capital costs that are required by the franchise to be
incurred by a Grantee for public, educational or governmental access
facilities;

      3.   Requirements or charges that are incidental to the award or
enforcement of the franchise, including payments for bonds, security
funds, letters of credit, insurance, indemnification, penalties or
liquidated damages; or

      4.   Any fee imposed under Title 17, United States Code.

   K.   “Franchise Service Area” or “Service Area” means the entire
geographic area of the City as it is now constituted, or may in the
future be constituted, unless otherwise specified in the ordinance or
resolution granting a franchise, or in a franchise agreement.

   L.   “Grantee” means any person that is awarded a franchise in
accordance with this Chapter, and that person’s lawful successor,
transferee, or assignee.

   M.   “Multichannel Video Programming Distributor” or “Video
Programming Distributor” means a person such as, but not limited to, a
cable system operator, an open video system operator, a multichannel
multipoint distribution service, a direct broadcast satellite service,
or a television receive-only satellite program distributor, who makes
available multiple channels of video programming for purchase by
subscribers or customers.

   N.   “Open Video System” means a facility consisting of a set of
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and
control equipment that is designed to provide cable service, including
video programming, and that is provided to multiple subscribers within
the City, provided that the FCC has certified that such system is
authorized to operate in the City and complies with 47 CFR 1500 et seq.,
titled “Open Video Systems.”

   O.   “Open Video System Operator” means any person or group of
persons who provides cable service over an open video system and
directly or through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest
in that open video system, or otherwise controls or is responsible for
the management and operation of that open video system.

   P.   “Person” means an individual, partnership, limited liability
company, association, joint stock company, trust, corporation or
governmental entity.

   Q.   “Public, Educational or Government Access Facilities” or “PEG
Access Facilities,” means the total of the following:

      1.   Channel capacity designated for noncommercial public,
educational, or government use; and

      2.   Facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.

   R.   “Subscriber” or “Customer” or “Consumer” means any person who,
for any purpose, subscribes to the services provided by a multichannel
video programming distributor and who pays the charges for those
services.

   S.   “Street” or “Public Right-of-Way” means each of the following
that has been dedicated to the public and maintained under public
authority or by others and is located within the City limits: streets,
roadways, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, easements,
rights-of-way and similar public property that the City from time to
time authorizes to be included within the definition of a street.

   T.    “Telecommunications” means the transmission, between or among
points specified by the user, of information of the user's choosing,
without change in the form or content of the information as sent and
received.

   U.   “Telecommunications Equipment” means equipment, other than
customer premises equipment, used by a telecommunications service
provider to provide telecommunications service, including software that
is integral to that equipment.

   V.   “Telecommunications Service” means the offering of
telecommunications directly to the public for a fee, or to such classes
of users as to be effectively available directly to the public,
regardless of the equipment or facilities that are used.

   W.   “Telecommunications Service Provider” means any provider of
telecommunications service.

   X.   “____ U.S.C. § ____” means the United States Code. Thus, the
citation of “47 U.S.C. § 153” refers to Title 47, Section 153, of the
United States Code.

   Y.   “Video Programming Provider” means any person or group of
persons who has the right under the Federal copyright laws to select and
to contract for the carriage of specific video programming on a cable
system or an open video system.

   Z.   “Video Provider” means any person, company, or service that
provides one or more channels of video programming to a residence,
including a home, multi-family dwelling complex, congregate-living
complex, condominium, apartment or mobilehome, where some fee is paid
for that service, whether directly or as included in dues or rental
charges, and whether or not public rights-of-way are used in the
delivery of that video programming. A “video provider” includes, without
limitation, providers of cable television service, open video system
service, master antenna television, satellite master antenna television,
direct broadcast satellite, multipoint distribution services and other
providers of video programming, whatever their technology.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.030   Suspension and Waiver of Application Fee Deposits.

   A.   With regard to any application fee deposit for an initial
franchise, or for the renewal of a franchise, or for the transfer or
change in. control of a franchise that is authorized by this Chapter,
the City Manager may suspend that application fee deposit in accordance
with this Section.

   B.   The City Manager, in consultation with the City Attorney, will
review all written information submitted by the applicant or franchisee
in support of its contention that applicable law prohibits imposition of
the application fee deposit provided for by this Chapter. If a
determination is made that applicable law supports the contention of the
applicant or franchisee, then the City Manager may suspend the
imposition of the application fee deposit; provided, however, that such
suspension must be ratified by the City Council within thirty (30) days
after the City Manager’s determination and, if ratified, the application
fee deposit will be deemed to have been waived.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

PART 2.   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEMS

5.40.040   Authority and Findings.

   A.   In accordance with applicable Federal and State law, the City is
authorized to grant one (1) or more nonexclusive franchises to
construct, reconstruct, operate and maintain cable television systems
within the City limits.

   B.   The City Council finds that the development of cable television
services may provide significant benefits for, and substantial impacts
upon, the residents of the City. Because of the complex and rapidly
changing technology associated with cable television, the City Council
further finds that the public convenience, safety, and general welfare
can best be served by establishing regulatory powers to be exercised by
the City. This Part 2 is intended to specify the means for providing to
the public the best possible cable television services, and every
franchise issued in accordance with this Part 2 is intended to achieve
this primary objective. It is the further intent of this Part 2 to adopt
regulatory provisions that will enable the City to regulate cable
television services to the maximum extent authorized by Federal and
State law.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.050   Franchise Terms and Conditions.

   A.   Franchise Purposes. A franchise granted by the City under the
provisions of this Part 2 may authorize the Grantee to do the following:

      1.   To engage in the business of providing cable television
services that are authorized by law and that Grantee elects to provide
to its subscribers within the designated franchise service area.

      2.   To erect, install, construct, repair, rebuild, reconstruct,
replace, maintain and retain, cable lines, related electronic equipment,
supporting structures, appurtenances and other property in connection
with the operation of the cable system in, on, over, under, upon, along
and across streets and public rights-of-way within the designated
franchise service area.

      3.   To maintain and operate the franchise properties for the
origination, reception, transmission, amplification and distribution of
television and radio signals, and for the delivery of cable services and
such other services as may be authorized by law.

   B.   Franchise Required. It is unlawful for any person to construct,
install, or operate a cable television system within any street or
public way in the City without first obtaining a franchise under the
provisions of this Part 2.

   C.   Term of the Franchise.

      1.   A franchise granted under this Part 2 will be for the term
specified in the franchise agreement, commencing upon the effective date
of the resolution adopted by the City Council that authorizes the
franchise.

      2.   A franchise granted under this Part 2 may be renewed upon
application by the grantee in accordance with the then-applicable
provisions of state and Federal law and this Part 2.

   D.   Franchise Service Area. A franchise is effective within the
territorial limits of the City, and within any area added to the City
during the term of the franchise, unless otherwise specified in the
resolution granting the franchise or in the franchise agreement.

   E.   Federal or State Jurisdiction. This Part 2 will be construed in
a manner consistent with all applicable Federal and State laws, and it
applies to all franchises granted or renewed after the effective date of
this Chapter, to the extent authorized by applicable law.

   F.   Franchise Non-Transferable.

      1.   Grantee may not sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet, or
dispose of, in whole or in part, either by forced or involuntary sale,
or by ordinary sale, contract, consolidation or otherwise, the franchise
or any of the rights or privileges therein granted, without the prior
written consent of the City Council, which consent may not be
unreasonably denied or delayed. Any attempt to sell, transfer, lease,
assign, or otherwise dispose of the franchise without the written
consent of the City Council is null and void. The granting of a security
interest in any assets of grantee, or any mortgage or other
hypothecation, will not be deemed a transfer for the purposes of this
Subsection. A transfer to a person or entity owned or controlled by or
under common ownership or control of grantee shall not be deemed a
transfer for the purposes of this Subsection.

      2.   The requirements of Subsection 1. apply to any change in
control of grantee. The word “control” as used herein is not limited to
the ownership of major stockholder or partnership interests, but
includes actual working control in whatever manner exercised. If grantee
is a partnership or a corporation, prior authorization of the City
Council is required where ownership or control of twenty-five percent
(25%) or more of the partnership interests or of the voting stock of
grantee, or any company in the tier of companies controlling the
grantee, whether directly or indirectly, is acquired by a person or a
group of persons acting in concert, none of whom, individually or
collectively, owns or controls those partnership interests or that
voting stock of the grantee, or grantee’s upper tier of controlling
companies, as of the effective date of the franchise.

      3.   Unless precluded by Federal law, grantee must give prior
written notice to the City of any proposed foreclosure or judicial sale
of all or a substantial part of grantee’s franchise property. That
notification will be considered by the City as notice that a change in
control of ownership of the franchise will take place, and the
provisions of this Subsection that require the prior written consent of
the City Council to that change in control of ownership will apply.

      4.   For the purpose of determining whether it will consent to an
acquisition, transfer or change in control, the City may inquire about
the qualifications of the prospective transferee or controlling party,
and grantee must assist the City in that inquiry. In seeking the City’s
consent to any change of ownership or control, grantee or the proposed
transferee, or both, must complete Federal Communications Commission
Form 394 or its equivalent. This application must be submitted to the
City not less than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the proposed
date of transfer. The transferee must establish that it possesses the
legal, financial, and technical capability to remedy all then-existing
defaults and deficiencies, and, during the remaining term of the
franchise, to operate and maintain the cable system and to comply with
all franchise requirements. If the legal, financial, and technical
qualifications of the proposed transferee are determined to be
satisfactory, then the City will consent to the transfer of the
franchise.

      5.   Any financial institution holding a pledge of grantee’s
assets to secure the advance of money for the construction or operation
of the franchise property has the right to notify the City that it, or a
designee satisfactory to the City, will take control of and operate the
cable television system upon grantee’s default in its financial
obligations. Further, that financial institution must also submit a plan
for such operation within ninety (90) days after assuming control. The
plan must ensure continued service and compliance with all franchise
requirements during the period that the financial institution will
exercise control over the system. The financial institution may not
exercise control over the system for a period exceeding one (1) year
unless authorized by the City, in its sole discretion, and during that
period of time it will have the right to petition the City to transfer
the franchise to another grantee.

      6.   Unless prohibited by applicable law, grantee must reimburse
the City for the City’s reasonable review and processing expenses
incurred in connection with any transfer or change in control of the
franchise. These expenses may include, without limitation, costs of
administrative review, financial, legal, and technical evaluation of the
proposed transferee, consultants (including technical and legal experts
and all costs incurred by these experts), notice and publication costs,
and document preparation expenses. The total amount of these
reimbursable expenses may be subject to maximum limits that are
specified in the franchise agreement between the City and grantee. No
reimbursement may be offset against any franchise fee payable to the
City during the term of the franchise.

   G.   Geographical Coverage.

      1.   Unless otherwise provided in the franchise agreement, grantee
must design, construct, and maintain the cable television system to have
the capability to pass every dwelling unit and commercial building in
the franchise service area, subject to any service-area line extension
requirements or territorial restrictions set forth in the franchise
agreement.

      2.   After service has been established by activating trunk or
distribution cables for any service area, grantee must provide standard
installations to any requesting subscriber within that activated part of
the service area within seven (7) days from the date of request, or such
longer time as may be requested by the subscriber, provided that grantee
is able to secure on reasonable terms and conditions all rights-of-way
and permits necessary to extend service to that subscriber within that
period. Standard installations are defined as installations that are
located up to one hundred twenty-five (125) feet from the existing
distribution system and do not require trenching to serve.

   H.   Nonexclusive Franchise. Every franchise granted is nonexclusive.
The City specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such
additional franchises for a cable television system that it deems
appropriate, subject to applicable State and Federal law. If an
additional franchise is proposed to be granted to a new applicant, a
noticed public hearing must first be held if required by the provisions
of Government Code Section 53066.3.

   I.   Multiple Franchises.

      1.   The City may grant any number of franchises, subject to
applicable State and Federal law. The City may limit the number of
franchises granted, based upon, but not necessarily limited to, the
requirements of applicable law and the following specific local
considerations:

         a.   The capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate
multiple cables in addition to the cables, conduits, and pipes of the
existing utility systems, such as electrical power, telephone, gas and
sewerage.

         b.   The benefits that may accrue to subscribers as a result of
cable system competition, such as lower rates and improved service.

         c.   The disadvantages that may result from cable system
competition, such as the requirement for multiple pedestals on
residents’ property, and the disruption arising from numerous
excavations within the public rights-of-way.

      2.   The City may require that any new cable operator be
responsible for its own underground trenching and the associated costs
if, in the City’s opinion, the rights-of-way in any particular area
cannot reasonably accommodate additional cables.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.060   Franchise Applications and Renewal.

   A.   Filing of Applications. Any person desiring an initial franchise
for a cable television system must file an application with the City. An
application fee deposit in an amount established by resolution of the
City Council must accompany the application. That application fee
deposit will cover all anticipated costs associated with reviewing and
processing the application, including without limitation costs of
administrative review, financial, legal and technical evaluation of the
applicant, consultants (including technical and legal experts and all
costs incurred by those experts), notice and publication requirements,
and document preparation expenses. If actual costs exceed the
application fee deposit, the applicant must pay the difference to the
City within thirty (30) days following receipt of an itemized statement
of those costs. If actual costs are less than the application fee
deposit, the remaining balance will be refunded to the applicant.

   B.   Applications - Contents. An application for an initial franchise
for a cable television system must contain, as applicable:

      1.   A statement describing the proposed franchise service area
and an explanation whether this proposed service area is, or will be,
part of a larger regional cluster of franchise service areas.

      2.   A resume of the applicant’s prior history, including the
applicant’s experience and expertise in the cable television industry.

      3.   A list of the partners, general and limited, of the
applicant, if a partnership, or the percentage of stock owned or
controlled by each stockholder, if a closely-held corporation. If the
applicant is a publicly-owned partnership or corporation, each owner of
ten percent (10%) or more of the partnership interests, or of the issued
and outstanding capital stock, must be identified. If the applicant is a
limited liability company, the following information must be provided:
the address of its principal executive office; the name and business or
residence address of each member and of each holder of an economic
interest in the limited liability company, together with the
contribution and the share in profits and losses of each member and
holder of an economic interest; the name and business or residence
address of any manager or managers and the chief executive officer, if
any, appointed or elected in accordance with the articles of
organization or operating agreement.

      4.   A list of officers, directors, and managing employees of the
applicant, and a description of the background and qualifications of
each such person.

      5.   A statement specifying the number of people employed by the
applicant, whether on a full-time or part-time basis.

      6.   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of the
applicant, or any other business entity owning or controlling applicant
in whole or in part, or that is owned or controlled in whole or in part
by the applicant.

      7.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles that demonstrate the applicant’s
financial ability to:

         a.   Construct, operate, maintain and remove any new physical
plant that is proposed to be constructed in the City.

         b.   Comply with the City’s public, educational, and
governmental access requirements.

         c.   Comply with the City’s requirement that franchise fees be
paid on the applicant’s gross revenues derived from the operation of the
cable system to provide cable services.

      8.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing
telecommunications facilities in the City that the applicant intends to
use, to purchase or to lease.

      9.   A description of the cable services and any other services
that will be offered by the applicant using existing or proposed
facilities.

      10.   The proposed construction and service schedule, the proposed
rate structure for cable services, and the proposed commitment to
provide public, educational, and governmental access capacity, services,
facilities and equipment.

      11.   Any additional information that the City deems to be
reasonably necessary to evaluate the applicant’s qualifications.

   C.   Consideration of Initial Applications.

      1.   Upon receipt of an application for an initial franchise, the
City Manager or the City Manager’s designee must prepare a report and
make recommendations to the City Council concerning that application.

      2.   A public hearing will be noticed prior to any initial
franchise grant, at a time and date approved by the City Council. Within
thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing, the City Council will
make a decision, based upon the documents and testimony received at the
hearing, whether the franchise should be granted, and, if granted,
subject to what conditions. The City Council may grant one (1) or more
franchises, or may decline to grant any franchise.

   D.   Franchise Renewal. Franchise renewals will be processed in
accordance with then-applicable law and with the renewal terms, if any,
of the franchise agreement. The City and grantee, by mutual consent, may
enter into renewal negotiations at any time during the term of the
franchise. Unless prohibited by applicable law, a renewal application
fee deposit in an amount established by resolution of the City Council
must accompany the renewal application or the renewal request. That
renewal application fee deposit will cover all anticipated costs
associated with reviewing and processing the renewal application,
including the review of grantee’s prior compliance with the franchise,
the ascertainment of the community’s cable-related needs and interests,
the engagement of technical and legal consultants, and expenses related
to negotiations and document preparation. If actual costs exceed the
renewal application fee deposit, grantee must pay the difference to the
City within thirty (30) days following receipt of an itemized statement
of those costs. If actual costs are less than the renewal application
fee deposit, the remaining balance will be refunded to grantee. No
renewal application fee may be offset against any franchise fee payable
to the City during the term of the franchise. The City Council may
authorize the renewal of a cable television franchise agreement by
resolution.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.070   Contents of Cable Television Franchise Agreements.

   A.   The provisions of a franchise agreement for the operation of a
cable television system may relate to or include, without limitation,
the following subject matters:

      1.   The geographical area, duration and nonexclusive nature of
the franchise.

      2.   The applicable franchise fee to be paid to the City,
including the percentage amount, the method of computation and the time
for payment.

      3.   Requirements relating to compliance with and implementation
of State and Federal laws and regulations pertaining to the operation of
the cable television system.

      4.   Requirements relating to the construction, upgrade or rebuild
of the cable television system, as well as the provision of special
services, such as outlets for public buildings, emergency alert
capability and parental control devices.

      5.   Requirements relating to the maintenance of a performance
bond, a security fund, a letter of credit or similar assurances to
secure the performance of the grantee’s obligations under the franchise
agreement.

      6.   Requirements relating to comprehensive liability insurance,
workers’ compensation insurance and indemnification.

      7.   Requirements relating to consumer protection and customer
service standards, which requirements may include, without limitation,
compliance with the statutes, rules and regulations set forth in Section
5.40.080 below.

      8.   Requirements relating to grantee's support of local cable
usage, including the provision of public, educational and governmental
access channels, the coverage of public meetings and special events and
financial support for the required access channels.

      9.   Requirements relating to grantee's obligation to provide an
institutional network, and channel capacity on that institutional
network for educational or governmental use, subject to the City’s rules
and procedures for the use of such channel capacity and for
compatibility with any telecommunications network that has been or may
be developed by the City.

      10.   Requirements relating to construction, operation and
maintenance of the cable television system within the City’s streets and
public rights-of-way, including compliance with all applicable building
codes and permit requirements of the City, the abandonment, removal or
relocation of facilities and compliance with FCC technical standards.

      11.   Requirements relating to record keeping, accounting
procedures, reporting, periodic audits, performance reviews, the
inspection of grantee’s books and records and reimbursement for
technical audits and franchise fee audits under specified circumstances.

      12.   Acts or omissions constituting material breaches of or
defaults under the franchise agreement, and the applicable penalties or
remedies for such breaches or defaults, including fines, penalties,
liquidated damages, suspension, revocation and termination.

      13.   Requirements relating to the sale, assignment or other
transfer or change in control of the franchise.

      14.   Grantee’s obligation to maintain continuity of service and
to authorize, under certain specified circumstances, the City’s
operation and management of the cable system.

      15.   Such additional requirements, conditions, policies and
procedures as may be mutually agreed upon by the parties to the
franchise agreement and that will, in the judgment of City staff and the
City Council, best serve the public interest and protect the public
health, welfare and safety.

   B.   If there is any conflict or inconsistency between the provisions
of a franchise agreement authorized by the City Council and provisions
of this Chapter, the provisions of the franchise agreement will control.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.080   Consumer Protection and Service Standards.

   A.   Operational Standards.

      1.   Grantee must maintain the necessary facilities, equipment and
personnel to comply with the following consumer protection and service
standards under normal operating conditions:

         a.   Sufficient toll-free telephone line capacity during normal
business hours to ensure that telephone calls are answered promptly.
Telephone answer time by a customer service representative, including
wait time, may not exceed thirty (30) seconds when the connection is
made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time must not exceed
thirty (30) seconds.

         b.   Callers must receive a busy signal less than three percent
(3%) of the time, measured quarterly.

         c.   Emergency toll-free telephone line capacity on a
twenty-four (24) hour basis, including weekends and holidays. After
normal business hours, the telephone calls may be answered by a service
or an automated response system, including an answering machine. Calls
received after normal business hours must be responded to by a trained
company representative on the next business day.

         d.   A conveniently-located local business and service or
payment office open during normal business hours at least eight (8)
hours daily on weekdays, and at least four (4) hours weekly on evenings
or weekends, and adequately staffed with trained customer service
representatives to accept subscriber payments and to respond to service
requests, inquiries and complaints.

         e.   An emergency system maintenance and repair staff, capable
of responding to and repairing major system malfunctions on a
twenty-four (24) hour per day basis.

         f.   A trained installation staff must provide service to any
subscriber requiring a standard installation within seven days after
receipt of a request, or such longer time as may be requested by the
subscriber, in all areas where trunk and feeder cable have been
activated. “Standard installations” are those that are located up to one
hundred twenty-five (125) feet from the existing distribution system,
unless otherwise defined in the franchise agreement.

         g.   Grantee must schedule, within a specified four-hour time
period Monday through Saturday (legal holidays excluded), all
appointments with subscribers for installation of service, service calls
and other activities at the subscriber’s location. Grantee may schedule
installation and service calls outside of normal business hours for the
convenience of the subscriber. Grantee may not cancel an appointment
with a subscriber after the close of business on the business day prior
to the scheduled appointment, except in the case of an emergency. If a
grantee representative is delayed in keeping an appointment with a
subscriber and will not be able to honor the scheduled appointment, the
subscriber must be contacted prior to the time of the scheduled
appointment, and the appointment must be rescheduled, as necessary, at a
time that is convenient for the subscriber. Grantee must undertake
appropriate quality control measures to ensure that the customer is
satisfied with the work.

         h.   Subscribers who have experienced a late or a missed
appointment due to the fault of grantee will receive either a free
installation or a twenty dollar ($20.00) credit.

         i.   Upon a subscriber’s request, grantee will arrange for
pickup or replacement of converters or other equipment provided by the
grantee at the subscriber’s address within fourteen (14) days after the
request is made if the subscriber is mobility-limited,

      2.   Under normal operating conditions, the standards of
Subsections a., b., c, f. and g. above must be met not less than ninety
percent (90%) of the time, measured on a quarterly basis. Upon grantor’s
request, grantee must submit to the City quarterly reports setting forth
its compliance with those standards.

   B.   Service Standards.

      1.   Grantee will render efficient service, make repairs promptly,
and interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time
possible. Except in emergency situations, scheduled interruptions will
occur during a period of minimum use of the cable system, preferably
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. Unless the scheduled interruption
lasts for no more than two (2) hours and occurs between 12:00 midnight
and 6:00 a.m. (in which event twenty-four (24) hours prior notice must
be given to the City), forty-eight (48) hours prior notice must be given
to subscribers.

      2.   Grantee will maintain a repair force of technicians who will
respond to subscriber requests for service within the following time
frames:

         a.   For a system outage: Within two (2) hours, including
weekends, after receiving subscriber calls or requests for service that
by number identify a system outage of sound or picture on one or more
channels, affecting five (5) or more subscribers to the system.

         b.   For an isolated outage: Within twenty-four (24) hours,
including weekends, after receiving requests for service identifying an
isolated outage of sound or picture on one (1) or more channels.

         c.   For inferior signal quality: No later than the following
business day, excluding Sundays and holidays, after a request for
service identifying a problem concerning picture or sound quality.

      3.   Grantee will be deemed to have responded to a request for
service under the provisions of this Subsection B. when a technician
arrives at the service location and begins work on the problem if the
problem cannot be corrected remotely. If a subscriber is not home when
the technician arrives, the technician must leave written notification
of arrival.

      4.   Grantee may not charge for the repair or replacement of
defective or malfunctioning equipment provided by grantee to
subscribers, unless the defect or malfunction was caused by the
subscriber.

      5.   Grantee must determine the nature of the problem within
twenty-four (24) hours after commencing work and resolve all cable
system related problems within three (3) business days, unless
technically infeasible.

   C.   Billing and Information Standards.

      1.   Subscriber bills must be clear, concise and understandable.
Bills must be fully itemized, with itemizations including, but not
limited to, basic and premium service charges and equipment charges.
Bills must also clearly delineate all activity during the billing
period, including optional charges, rebates and credits.

      2.   The first billing to a subscriber after a new installation or
service change must be prorated based upon when the new or changed
service commenced. Subscribers must not be charged a late fee or
otherwise penalized for any failure attributable to grantee, including
the failure to timely or correctly bill the subscriber.

      3.   In case of a billing dispute, grantee must respond in writing
to a written complaint from a subscriber within thirty (30) days after
receiving the complaint at the office specified on the billing statement
for receiving that complaint.

      4.   Upon request by a subscriber, credits or refunds must be
provided by grantee to subscribers who experience an outage,
interruption or disconnection of service of four (4) or more consecutive
hours, provided that such loss of service is neither caused by the
subscriber nor attributable to scheduled repairs, maintenance or
construction in circumstances where grantee has provided advance written
notice to subscriber, and the loss of service does not exceed the time
period specified by grantee. For subscribers terminating service,
credits or refunds must be issued promptly, but no later than thirty
(30) days after the return of any grantee-supplied equipment.

      5.   Grantee must provide written information on each of the
following matters at the time of the installation of service, at least
annually to all subscribers, and at any time upon request:

         a.   Products and services offered.

         b.   Prices and options for programming services and conditions
of subscription to programming and other services.

         c.   Installation and service maintenance policies.

         d.   Instructions on the use of the cable service.

         e.   Channel positions of programming carried on the system,

         f.   Billing and complaint procedures.

         g.   Consumer protection and service standards and penalties
for noncompliance.

      6.   Subscribers must be notified in writing of any changes in
rates, programming services, or channel positions as soon as possible.
Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of thirty (30) days in
advance of those changes if the change is within the control of the
grantee. In addition, grantee will endeavor to notify grantor of those
changes at least five (5) working days before subscribers are notified.

      7.   Grantee must maintain a public file containing all written
notices provided to subscribers under these consumer protection and
service standards and all published promotional offers made by grantee
to subscribers. These documents must be maintained for a minimum period
of two (2) years.

   D.   Verification of Compliance with Standards.

      1.   Upon thirty (30) days prior written notice, the City may
require grantee to provide a written report demonstrating its compliance
with any of the consumer service standards specified in this Section.
Grantee must provide sufficient documentation to enable the City to
verify compliance.

      2.   A repeated and verifiable pattern of noncompliance with the
consumer protection and service standards of this Section, after the
grantee’s receipt of written notice and an opportunity to cure, may be
deemed a material breach of the franchise agreement.

   E.   Subscriber Complaints and Disputes.

      1.   Grantee must establish written procedures for receiving,
acting upon and resolving subscriber complaints without intervention by
the City. The written procedures must prescribe the manner in which a
subscriber may submit a complaint, either orally or in writing,
specifying the subscriber’s grounds for dissatisfaction. The grantee
must file a copy of these procedures with the City. These procedures
must include a requirement consistent with Section 5.40.080.C.3.

      2.   Upon request, and subject to applicable law protecting
subscriber privacy rights, the City has the right to review grantee’s
response to subscriber complaints.

      3.   All subscribers have the right to continue receiving service
so long as their financial and other obligations to grantee are honored.
If grantee elects to rebuild, modify, or sell the system, or if grantor
gives notice of intent to terminate or not to renew the franchise,
grantee must act to ensure that all subscribers receive service while
the franchise remains in force.

      4.   Upon a change of control of grantee, or if a new operator
acquires the cable system, the original grantee must cooperate with
grantor, or the new operator in maintaining continuity of service to all
subscribers. During that transition period, grantee is entitled to the
revenues derived from its operation of the cable system.

   F.   Disconnection and Downgrades.

      1.   A subscriber may terminate or downgrade service at any time,
and grantee must promptly comply with the subscriber's request within
seven (7) days or at any later time requested by the subscriber. No
period of notice prior to voluntary termination or downgrade of service
may be required of subscribers. Grantee will impose no charges for the
voluntary termination of all services unless a visit to the subscriber’s
premises is required to remove a converter box or other equipment or
property owned by grantee. Grantee may, in accordance with applicable
law, charge a fee to downgrade service if a service call is required.

      2.   Grantee may disconnect a subscriber’s service in compliance
with paragraphs I, J, and K of Government Code Section 53088.2. If
service is disconnected for nonpayment of past due fees or charges,
grantee must promptly reinstate service upon payment in full by the
subscriber of all such fees and charges, including late charges.

      3.   Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection 2. above,
grantee may immediately disconnect service to a subscriber if the
subscriber is damaging or destroying the grantee’s cable system or
equipment.

      4.   Grantee may also disconnect service to a subscriber when
service causes signal leakage exceeding Federal limits. If service is
disconnected, grantee will immediately resume service without charge
upon the satisfactory correction of the signal leakage problem if the
signal leakage problem is attributable to grantee.

      5.   Grantee may also disconnect service in cases where customers
are stealing service or have made threats of physical violence upon
grantee’s personnel.

      6.   Upon termination of service to a subscriber, grantee will
endeavor to remove its equipment from the subscriber’s premises within
thirty (30) days.

   G.   Changes in Service. Except as otherwise provided by Federal or
State law, subscribers must not be required to pay any additional fee or
charge, other than the regular service fee, in order to receive the
services selected. No charge may be imposed for any service or equipment
that the subscriber has not affirmatively selected. Payment of the
regular monthly bill will not by itself constitute an affirmative
selection.

   H.   Deposits. Grantee may require a reasonable, nondiscriminatory
deposit on equipment provided to subscribers. Such deposits must be
placed in an interest-bearing account. The deposit must be returned,
with interest earned to the date of repayment, within thirty (30) days
after the equipment is returned to grantee.

   I.   Parental Control Option. Grantee must provide parental control
devices at no charge to all subscribers who desire to block the video or
audio portion of any pay channels providing adult programming that the
subscriber finds objectionable. For other programming, such devices will
be provided at a reasonable charge to the subscriber.

   J.   Additional Requirements.

      1.   All officers, agents, and employees of grantee, or of its
contractors or subcontractors, who, in the normal course of work come
into contact with members of the public, or who require entry onto
subscribers’ premises, must display a photo-identification card. Grantee
must account for all identification cards at all times. All vehicles of
grantee or its subcontractors must be clearly identified as vehicles
engaged in providing services for grantee.

      2.   In addition to the consumer protection and service standards
specified in this Section, grantee must comply with all applicable
consumer protection and service standards that are imposed upon cable
operators by the following:

         a.   Federal statutes, and the rules, regulations and orders of
the FCC, including the following:

            (1)   The provisions of 47 CFR 76.630 as it now exists or
may later be amended, which relate to compatibility with consumer
electronics equipment.

            (2)   The provisions of 47 U.S.C. § 551 as it now exists or
may later be amended, which relate to the protection of subscriber
privacy.

         b.   The provisions of Government Code Sections 53054 et seq.,
which is titled the “Cable Television and Video Provider Customer
Service and Information Act.”

         c.   The provisions of Government Code Sections 53088 et seq.,
which is titled the “Video Customer Service Act.”

         d.   The provisions of Civil Code Section 1722(b)(1)-(6), which
relate to service or repair transactions between cable television
companies and their subscribers.

         e.   The provisions of Penal Code Section 637.5, which relate
to subscribers’ rights to privacy protection.

      3.   If there is any conflict or inconsistency between a consumer
protection and service standard specified in this Section, and a
standard set forth in the statutes, rules, regulations, and orders that
are referenced above in Subsection 2., then the standard that is
specified in this Section will apply to the extent authorized by
applicable law.

   K.   Penalties for Noncompliance.

      1.   Purpose. The purpose of this paragraph is to authorize
monetary penalties for the violation of the customer service standards
established by this Section. The liquidated damages or other monetary
sanctions applicable to grantee’s material violation of any customer
service standards set forth in this Subsection will be specified in the
franchise agreement between the City and grantee. The imposition of
penalties authorized by this Subsection will not prevent the City or any
other affected party from exercising any other remedy to the extent
permitted by law.

      2.   Administration and Appeals.

         a.   Assessment of Monetary Penalties. The City Manager or the
City Manager’s designee is authorized to administer this Subsection.
Decisions by the City Manager to assess monetary penalties against
grantee must be in writing and must contain findings supporting the
decisions. Decisions by the City Manager are final, unless appealed to
the City Council.

         b.   Appeals to City Council. If grantee or any interested
person is aggrieved by a decision of the City Manager, the aggrieved
party may, within ten (10) days of the written decision, appeal that
decision in writing to the City Council. The City Council may affirm,
modify or reverse the decision of the City Manager.

         c.   Judicial Remedy. This paragraph does not preclude any
affected party from pursuing any judicial remedy available to that party
without regard to this Subsection.

         d.   Notification of Violation. The City must give grantee
written notice of any alleged violation of the consumer service
standards and allow grantee at least thirty (30) days from receipt of
the notice to remedy the specified violations. For the purpose of
assessing penalties, a material breach is deemed to have occurred for
each day, following the expiration of the period for cure specified
herein, that any breach has not been remedied by grantee, irrespective
of the number of subscribers affected.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

PART 3.   OPEN VIDEO SYSTEMS

5.40.090   Applicability.

The provisions of this Part 3 apply to an open video system operator, as
defined in Section 5.40.020, that intends to deliver video programming
to consumers in the City over an open video system.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.100   Application Required.

   A.   Before commencing the delivery of video programming services to
consumers in the City over an open video system, the open video system
operator must file an application with the City. That application must
include or be accompanied by the following, as applicable:

      1.   The identity of the applicant, including all affiliates of
the applicant.

      2.   Copies of FCC Form 1275, all “Notices of Intent” filed under
47 CAR 76.1503(b)(1), and the Order of the FCC, all of which relate to
certification of the applicant to operate an open video system in the
City in accordance with Communications Act Section 653(a)(1) and the
FCC’s rules.

      3.   The area or areas of the City that the applicant desires to
serve.

      4.   A description of the open video system services that will be
offered by the applicant over its existing or proposed facilities.

      5.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by
the applicant to deliver the open video system services.

      6.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant’s
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the
ownership and operation of the open video system described in the
application.

      7.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles that demonstrate the applicant’s
financial ability to:

         a.   Construct, operate, maintain and remove any new physical
plant that is proposed to be constructed in the City.

         b.   Comply with the City’s public, educational and
governmental access requirements as specified below in Section
5.40.120B.4.

         c.   Comply with the City’s requirement that gross revenue fees
be paid in the maximum amount authorized under Federal law, as specified
below in Section 5.40.120B.2.

      8.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing
telecommunications facilities in the City that the applicant intends to
use, to purchase or to lease.

      9.   If the applicant’s operation of the open video system will
require the construction of new physical plant and facilities in the
City, the following additional information must be provided:

         a.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion dates.

         b.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a
network map of any new facilities to be constructed in the City, in
sufficient detail to identify:

            (1)   The location and route requested for the applicant’s
proposed facilities.

            (2)   The locations, if any, for interconnection with the
facilities of other telecommunications service providers.

            (3)   The specific structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that the applicant proposes to add, remove or
relocate on a temporary or permanent basis.

         c.   The applicant’s statement that, in constructing any new
physical plant, the applicant will comply with all applicable
ordinances, rules and regulations of the City, including the payment of
all required permit and processing fees.

      10.   The information and documentation that is required to be
submitted to the City by a video provider, as specified below in
Subsection B. of Section 5.40.140.

      11.   Such additional information as may be requested by the City
Manager.

      12.   An application fee deposit in an amount established by
resolution of the City Council.

   B.   If any item of information specified above in Subsection A. is
determined under Federal or State law to be unlawful, the City Manager
is authorized to waive the requirement that such information be included
in the application.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.110   Review of the Application.

Within thirty (30) days after receipt of an application filed under
Section 5.40.100 that is deemed to be complete, the City Manager will
give written notice to the applicant of the City’s intent to negotiate
an agreement setting forth the terms and conditions under which the
operation of the proposed open video system will be authorized by the
City. The commencement of those negotiations will be on a date that is
mutually acceptable to the City and to the applicant.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.120   Agreement Required.

   A.   No video programming services may be provided in the City by an
open video system operator unless the operator and the City have
executed a written agreement, which may be designated as a franchise,
setting forth the terms and conditions under which the operation of the
proposed open video system will be authorized by the City. That
agreement may be authorized and approved by resolution of the City
Council.

   B.   The agreement between the City and the open video system
operator may contain provisions that relate to the following subject
matters, to the extent that such provisions and subject matters are not
preempted by Federal law or regulations:

      1.   The nature, scope and duration of the agreement, including
provisions for its renewal or extension.

      2.   The obligation of the open video system operator to pay to
the City, at specified times and in lieu of the franchise fees permitted
under Communications Act Section 522, fees on the gross revenue received
by the operator, as authorized by 47 CAR 76.1511, in accordance with the
following standards and procedures:

         a.   The amount of the fees on the gross revenue will be the
maximum amount authorized by Communications Act Section 653(c)(2)(B),
which is the rate imposed by the City on the existing franchised cable
operator.

         b.   The term “gross revenue” means (i) all gross revenue
received by an open video system operator or its affiliates, including
all revenue received from subscribers and all carriage revenue received
from unaffiliated video programming providers; and (ii) all advertising
revenue received by the operator or its affiliates in connection with
the provision of video programming, where such revenue is included in
the calculation of the cable franchise fee paid to the City by the
incumbent franchised cable operator. The term “gross revenue” does not
include revenue, such as subscriber or advertising revenue, collected by
unaffiliated video programming providers.

      3.   The obligation of the open video system operator to comply
with requirements relating to information collection and record keeping,
accounting procedures, reporting, periodic audits, and inspection of
records in order to ensure the accuracy of the fees on the gross revenue
that are required to be paid as specified above in Subsection 2.

      4.   The obligation of the open video system operator to meet the
City’s requirements with respect to public, educational and governmental
access channel capacity, services, facilities and equipment, as provided
for in 47 CAR 76.1505. In this regard, the following standards and
procedures are applicable:

         a.   The open video system operator is subject to the same
public, educational and governmental access requirements that apply
within the cable television franchise service area with which its system
overlaps.

         b.   The open video system operator must ensure that all
subscribers receive all public, educational and governmental access
channels within the franchise service area in which the City’s
subscribers are located.

         c.   The open video system operator may negotiate with the City
to establish the operator’s obligations with respect to public,
educational and governmental access channel capacity, services,
facilities and equipment. These negotiations may include the City's
franchised cable operator if the City, the open video system operator,
and the franchised cable operator so desire.

         d.   If the open video system operator and the City are unable
to reach an agreement regarding the operator’s obligations with respect
to public, educational and governmental access channel capacity,
services, facilities and equipment within the City’s jurisdiction, then
the following obligations will be imposed:

            (1)   The open video system operator must satisfy the same
public, educational, and governmental access obligations as the City’s
franchised cable operator by providing the same amount of channel
capacity for public, educational and governmental access and by matching
the City’s franchised cable operator's annual financial contributions in
support of public, educational and governmental access services,
facilities and equipment that are actually used by the City. For in-kind
contributions, such as cameras or production studios, the open video
system operator may satisfy its statutory obligation by negotiating
mutually agreeable terms with the City’s franchised cable operator, so
that public, educational and governmental access services to the City
are improved or increased. If such terms cannot be agreed upon, the open
video system operator must pay to the City the monetary equivalent of
the franchised cable operator’s depreciated in-kind contribution, or, in
the case of facilities, the annual amortization value. Any matching
contributions provided by the open video system operator must be used to
fund activities arising under Communications Act Section 611.

            (2)   The City will impose upon the open video system
operator the same rules and procedures that it imposes upon the
franchised cable operator with regard to the open video system
operator’s use of channel capacity designated for public, educational
and governmental access use when that capacity is not being used for
such purposes.

         e.   The City’s franchised cable operator is required under
Federal law to permit the open video system operator to connect with its
public, educational and governmental access channel feeds. The open
video system operator and the franchised cable operator may decide how
to accomplish this connection, taking into consideration the physical
and technical characteristics of the cable and the open video systems
involved. If the franchised cable operator and the open video system
operator cannot agree on how to accomplish the connection, the City has
the right to decide. The City may require that the connection occur on
City-owned property or on public rights-of-way.

         f.   All costs of connection to the franchised cable operator’s
public, educational and governmental access channel feed must be borne
by the open video system operator. These costs will be counted towards
the open video system operator’s matching financial contributions set
forth above in Subsection d.(1).

         g.   The City will not impose upon the open video system
operator any public, educational, or governmental access obligations
that are greater than those imposed upon the incumbent franchised cable
operator.

         h.   If there is no incumbent franchised cable operator, the
provisions of 47 CAR 76.1505(d)(6) will be applicable in determining the
obligations of the open video system operator.

         i.   The open video system operator must adjust its system to
comply with new public, educational and access obligations imposed on
the City’s incumbent franchised cable operator following a renewal of
the cable television franchise; provided, however, that the open video
system operator will not be required to displace other programmers using
its open video system to accommodate public, educational and
governmental access channels. The open video system operator must comply
with such new public, educational and governmental access obligations
whenever additional capacity is or becomes available, whether it is due
to increased channel capacity or to decreased demand for channel
capacity.

      5.   If the City and the open video system operator cannot agree
on the application of the FCC’s rules regarding the open video system
operator's obligations to provide public, educational and governmental
access under the provisions of Subsection 4 set forth above, then either
party may file a complaint with the FCC in accordance with the dispute
resolution procedures set forth in 47 CAR 76.1514. No agreement will be
executed by the City until the dispute has been finally resolved.

      6.   If the open video system operator intends to maintain an
institutional network, as defined in Communications Act Section 611(f),
the City will require that educational and governmental access channels
be designated on that institutional network to the same extent that
those channels are designated on the institutional network of the City’s
franchised cable operator.

      7.   The authority of an open video system operator to exercise
editorial control over any public, educational or governmental use of
channel capacity will be restricted in accordance with the provisions of
47 CAR 76.1505(f).

      8.   The obligation of the open video system operator to comply
with all applicable Federal, State and local statutes, ordinances and
regulations relating to customer service standards, including those
specified in Section 5.40.080.

      9.   If new physical plant is proposed to be constructed within
the City, the obligation of the open video system operator to comply
with the following rights-of-way use and management responsibilities
that are also imposed by the City upon other cable television and
telecommunications service providers in a nondiscriminatory and
competitively neutral manner:

         a.   Compliance with all applicable state statutes and City
codes, including applications for excavation, encroachment and
construction permits and the payment of all required permit and
inspection fees.

         b.   The coordination of construction activities.

         c.   Compliance with established standards and procedures for
constructing lines across private property.

         d.   Compliance with all applicable insurance and
indemnification requirements.

         e.   The repair and resurfacing of construction-damaged
streets.

         f.   Compliance with all public safety requirements that are
applicable to cable television and telecommunications service providers
using public property or public rights-of-way.

      10.   Acts or omissions constituting breaches or defaults of the
agreement, and the applicable penalties, liquidated damages and other
remedies, including fines or the suspension, revocation or termination
of the agreement.

      11.   Requirements relating to the sale, assignment or transfer of
the open video system.

      12.   Requirements relating to the open video system operator’s
compliance with and implementation of State and Federal laws, rules and
regulations pertaining to the operation of the open video system.

      13.   Such additional requirements, conditions, terms, policies
and procedures as may be mutually agreed upon by the City and the open
video system operator and that will, in the judgment of the City
Council, best serve the public interest and protect the public health,
welfare and safety.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

PART 4.   OTHER VIDEO AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES AND SYSTEMS

5.40.130   Other Multichannel Video Programming Distributors.

The term “cable system,” as defined in Federal law and as set forth in
Section 5.40.020, does not include a facility that serves subscribers
without using any public rights-of-way. Consequently, the categories of
multichannel video programming identified below are not deemed to be
“cable systems” and are therefore exempt from the City’s franchise
requirements and from certain other local regulatory provisions
authorized by Federal law, provided that their distribution or
transmission facilities do not involve the use of the City’s streets or
public rights-of-way.

   A.   Multichannel multipoint distribution service (“MMES”), also
known as “wireless cable,” which typically involves the transmission by
an FCC-licensed operator of numerous broadcast stations from a central
location using line-of-sight technology.

   B.   Local multipoint distribution service ("LMDS"), another form of
over-the-air wireless video service for which licenses are auctioned by
the FCC, and which offers video programming, telephony and data
networking services.

   C.   Direct broadcast satellite ("DBS"), also referred to as
“direct-to-home satellite services,” which involves the distribution or
broadcasting of programming or services by satellite directly to the
subscriber’s premises without the use of ground receiving or
distribution equipment, except at the subscriber’s premises or in the
uplink process to the satellite. Local regulation of direct-to-home
satellite services is further proscribed by the following Federal
statutory provisions:

      1.   47 U.S.C. § 303(v) confers upon the FCC exclusive
jurisdiction to regulate the provision of direct-to-home satellite
services.

      2.   Telecommunications Act of 1996 Section 602 states that a
provider of direct-to-home satellite service is exempt from the
collection or remittance, or both, of any tax or fee imposed by any
local taxing jurisdiction on direct-to-home satellite service, The terms
“tax” and “fee” are defined by Federal statute to mean any local sales
tax, local use tax, local intangible tax, local income tax, business
license fee, utility tax, privilege tax, gross receipts tax, excise tax,
franchise fees, local telecommunications tax, or any other tax, license
or fee that is imposed for the privilege of doing business, regulating,
or raising revenue for a local taxing jurisdiction.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.140   Video Providers - Registration; Customer Service Standards.

   A.   Notwithstanding the definition of the term “video provider” in
Section 5.40.020, the provisions of this Section 5.40.140 do not apply
to providers of direct-to-home satellite services, also known as direct
broadcast satellite (“DBS”).

   B.   Unless the customer protection and customer service obligations
of a video provider, as that term is defined in Section 5.40.020 (but
excluding "DBS"), are specified in a franchise, license, lease or
similar written agreement with the City, a video provider must comply
with all applicable provisions of the following state statutes:

      1.   The Cable Television and Video Customer Service and
Information Act (Government Code Sections 53054 et seq.).

      2.   The Video Customer Service Act (Government Code Sections
53088 et seq.).

   C.   All video providers that are operating in the City on the
effective date of this Chapter, or that intend to operate in the City
after its effective date, and are not required under applicable law to
operate under a franchise, license, lease or similar written agreement
with the City, must register with the City. The registration form must
include or be accompanied by the following:

      1.   The video provider’s name, address and local telephone
numbers.

      2.   The names of the officers of the video provider.

      3.   A copy of the video provider’s written policies and
procedures relating to customer service standards and the handling of
customer complaints, as required by Government Code Sections 53054 et
seq. These customer service standards must include, without limitation,
standards regarding the following:

         a.   Installation, disconnection, service and repair
obligations, employee identification and service call response time and
scheduling.

         b.   Customer service telephone and office hours.

         c.   Procedures for billing, charges, refunds and credits.

         d.   Procedures for termination of service.

         e.   Notice of the deletion of a programming service, the
changing of channel assignments or an increase in rates.

         f.   Complaint procedures and procedures for bill dispute
resolution.

         g.   The video provider’s written acknowledgment of its
obligation under Government Code Section 53055.1 to provide to new
customers a notice describing the customer service standards specified
above in Subsections a. through f. at the time of installation or when
service is initiated. The notice must also include, in addition to all
of the information described above in Subsections a. through f., all of
the following:

            (1)   A listing of the services offered by the video
provider that clearly describes all levels of service and the rates for
each level of service.

            (2)   The telephone number or numbers through which
customers may subscribe to, change or terminate service, request
customer service or seek general or billing information.

            (3)   A description of the rights and remedies that the
video provider may make available to its customers if the video provider
does not materially meet its customer service standards.

         h.    The video provider’s written commitment to distribute
annually to its employees and customers, and to the City, a notice
describing the customer service standards specified above in Subsections
a. through f. This annual notice must include the report of the video
provider on its performance in meeting its customer service standards,
as required by Government Code Section 53055.2. Subject to the written
notice and cure provisions of Government Code Section 53056(b), a video
provider that fails to distribute the annual notice required by
Government Code Section 53055.1 will be assessed a monetary penalty in
the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each year in which the
annual notice is not distributed to all of its customers.

      4.   Unless a video provider is exempt under Federal law from its
payment, a registration fee in an amount established by resolution of
the City Council to cover the reasonable costs incurred by the City in
reviewing and processing the registration form.

      5.   In addition to the registration fee specified above in
Subsection 4., the written commitment of the video provider to pay to
the City, when due, all costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the
City in resolving any disputes between the video provider and its
subscribers, which dispute resolution is mandated by Government Code
Section 53088.2(o).

   D.   The customer service obligations imposed upon video providers by
the Video Customer Service Act (Government Code Sections 53088 et seq.)
consist of the following:

      1.   Every video provider must render reasonably efficient
service, make repairs promptly and interrupt service only as necessary.

      2.   All video provider personnel contacting subscribers or
potential subscribers outside the office of the provider must be clearly
identified as associated with the video provider.

      3.   At the time of installation, and annually thereafter, all
video providers must provide to all customers a written notice of the
programming offered, the prices for that programming, the provider’s
installation and customer service policies, and the name, address and
telephone number of the City’s office that is designated for receiving
complaints.

      4.   All video providers must have knowledgeable, qualified
company representatives available to respond to customer telephone
inquiries Monday through Friday, excluding holidays, during normal
business hours.

      5.   All video providers must provide to customers a toll-free or
local telephone number for installation, service and complaint calls.
These calls must be answered promptly by the video providers.

      6.   All video providers must render bills that are accurate and
understandable.

      7.   All video providers must respond promptly to a complete
outage in a customer’s service. The response must occur within
twenty-four (24) hours of the reporting of that outage to the provider,
except in those situations beyond the reasonable control of the video
provider. A video provider will be deemed to respond to a complete
outage when a company representative arrives at the outage location
within twenty-four (24) hours and begins to resolve the problem.

      8.   All video providers must provide a minimum of thirty (30)
days written notice before increasing rates or deleting channels. All
video providers must make every reasonable effort to submit the notice
to the City in advance of its distribution to customers. The thirty (30)
day notice is waived if the increases in rates or deletion of channels
are outside the control of the video provider. In those cases, the video
provider must make reasonable efforts to provide customers with as much
notice as possible.

      9.   All video providers must allow every residential customer who
pays his/her bill directly to the video provider at least fifteen (15)
days from the date the bill for services is mailed to the customer, to
pay the listed charges unless otherwise agreed to pursuant to a
residential rental agreement establishing tenancy. Customer payments
must be posted promptly. No video provider may terminate residential
service for nonpayment of a delinquent account unless the video provider
furnishes notice of the delinquency and impending termination at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the proposed termination. The notice must be
mailed, postage prepaid, to the customer to whom the service is billed.
Notice must not be mailed until the sixteenth (16th) day after the date
the bill for services was mailed to the customer. The notice of
delinquency and impending termination may be part of a billing
statement. No video provider may assess a late fee any earlier than the
twenty-second (22nd) day after the bill for service has been mailed.

      10.   Every notice of termination of service pursuant to the
preceding Subsection 9. must include all of the following information:

         a.   The name and address of the customer whose account is
delinquent.

         b.   The amount of the delinquency.

         c.   The date by which payment is required in order to avoid
termination of service.

         d.   The telephone number of a representative of the video
provider who can provide additional information and handle complaints or
initiate an investigation concerning the service and charges in
question. Service may only be terminated on days in which the customer
can reach a representative of the video provider either in person or by
telephone.

      11.   Any service terminated without good cause must be restored
without charge for the service restoration. Good cause includes, but is
not limited to, failure to pay, payment by check for which there are
insufficient funds, theft of service, abuse of equipment or system
personnel or other similar subscriber actions.

      12.   All video providers must issue requested refund checks
promptly, but no later than forty-five (45) days following the
resolution of any dispute, and following the return of the equipment
supplied by the video provider, if service is terminated.

      13.   All video providers must issue security or customer deposit
refund checks promptly, but no later than forty-five (45) days following
the termination of service, less any deductions permitted by law.

      14.   Video providers must not disclose the name and address of a
subscriber for commercial gain to be used in mailing lists or for other
commercial purposes not reasonably related to the conduct of the
businesses of the video providers or their affiliates, unless the video
providers have provided to the subscriber a notice, separate or included
in any other customer notice, that clearly and conspicuously describes
the subscriber’s ability to prohibit that disclosure. Video providers
must provide an address and telephone number for a local subscriber to
use without toll charge to prevent disclosure of the subscriber’s name
and address.

   E.   As authorized by Government Code Section 53088(q), the following
schedule of penalties is adopted. These penalties may be imposed for the
material breach by a video provider of the consumer protection and
service standards, that are set forth above in Subsection D, provided
that the breach is within the reasonable control of the video provider.
These penalties are in addition to any other remedies authorized by this
article or by any other law, and the City has discretion to elect the
remedy that it will apply. The imposition of penalties authorized by
this Subsection E. will not prevent the City or any other affected party
from exercising any other remedy to the extent permitted by law,
including but not limited to any judicial remedy as provided below in
Subsection 2.

      1.   Schedule of Penalties.

         a.   For a first material breach: the maximum penalty is two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each day of material breach, but not to
exceed a cumulative total of six hundred dollars ($600.00) for each
occurrence of material breach, irrespective of the number of customers
affected.

         b.   For a second material breach of the same nature for which
a monetary penalty was previously assessed within the preceding twelve
(12) month period: the maximum penalty is four hundred dollars ($400.00)
per day, not to exceed a cumulative total of one thousand two hundred
dollars ($1,200.00) for each occurrence of the material breach,
irrespective of the number of customers affected.

         c.   For a third or further material breach of the same nature
for which a monetary penalty was previously assessed within the
preceding twelve (12) month period: the maximum penalty is one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per day, not to exceed a cumulative total of three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00) for each occurrence of the material breach,
irrespective of the number of customers affected.

         d.   The maximum penalties referenced above may be increased by
any additional amount authorized by state law.

      2.   Judicial Remedies Not Affected. The imposition of penalties
in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 1. above does not
preclude any affected party from pursuing any judicial remedy that is
available to that party.

      3.   Administration. Notice and Appeal.

         a.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee is
authorized to administer this Subsection E. Decisions by the City
Manager to assess penalties against a video provider must be in writing
and must contain findings supporting the decisions. Decisions by the
City Manager are final, unless appealed to the City Council.

         b.   If the video provider or any interested person is
aggrieved by a decision of the City Manager, the aggrieved party may,
within ten (10) days of the written decision, appeal that decision in
writing to the City Council. The City Council may affirm, modify or
reverse the decision of the City Manager.

         c.   The imposition of monetary penalties under Subsection 1.
above is subject to the following requirements and limitations:

            (1)   The City must give the video provider written notice
of any alleged material breach and must allow the video provider at
least thirty (30) days from receipt of that notice to remedy the breach.

            (2)   For the purpose of assessing monetary penalties, a
material breach will be deemed to have occurred for each day following
the expiration of the period for cure specified in Subsection (1) above
that the material breach has not been remedied by the video provider,
irrespective of the number of customers affected.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.150   Telecommunications Service Provided by Telephone
Corporations.

   A.   The City Council finds and determines as follows:

      1.   The Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 preempts and
declares invalid all state rules that restrict entry or limit
competition in both local and long-distance telephone service.

      2.   The California Public Utilities Commission (“CPUC”) is
primarily responsible for the implementation of local telephone
competition, and it issues certificates of public convenience and
necessity to new entrants that are qualified to provide competitive
local telephone exchange services and related telecommunications
service, whether using their own facilities or the facilities or
services provided by other authorized telephone corporations.

      3.   California Public Utilities Code Section 234(a) defines a
“telephone corporation” as “every corporation or person owning,
controlling, operating or managing any telephone line for compensation
within this state.”

      4.   California Public Utilities Code Section 616 provides that a
telephone corporation “may condemn any property necessary for the
construction and maintenance of its telephone line.”

      5.   California Public Utilities Code Section 2902 authorizes
municipal corporations to retain their powers of control to supervise
and regulate the relationships between a public utility and the general
public in matters affecting the health, convenience, and safety of the
general public, including matters such as the use and repair of public
streets by any public utility and the location of the poles, wires,
mains or conduits of any public utility on, under or above any public
streets.

      6.   California Public Utilities Code Section 7901 authorizes
telephone and telegraph corporations to construct telephone or telegraph
lines along and upon any public road or highway, along or across any of
the waters or lands within this state, and to erect poles, posts, piers
or abutments for supporting the insulators, wires and other necessary
fixtures of their lines, in such manner and at such points as not to
incommode the public use of the road or highway or interrupt the
navigation of the waters.

      7.   California Public Utilities Code Section 7901.1 confirms the
right of municipalities to exercise reasonable control as to the time,
place and manner in which roads, highways and waterways are accessed,
which control must be applied to all entities in an equivalent manner.
Nothing in Section 7901.1 adds to or subtracts from any existing
authority that municipalities have with respect to the imposition of
fees.

      8.   Government Code Section 50030 provides that any permit fee
imposed by a city for the placement, installation, repair or upgrading
of telecommunications facilities, such as lines, poles or antennas, by a
telephone corporation that has obtained all required authorizations from
the CPUC and the FCC to provide telecommunications services, must not
exceed the reasonable costs of providing the service for which the fee
is charged, and must not be levied for general revenue purposes.

   B.   In recognition of and in compliance with the statutory
authorizations and requirements set forth above in Subsection A., the
following regulatory provisions are applicable to a telephone
corporation that desires to provide telecommunications service by means
of facilities that are proposed to be constructed within the City’s
public rights-of-way:

      1.   The telephone corporation must apply for and obtain, as may
be applicable, an excavation permit, an encroachment permit or a
building permit (“ministerial permit”).

      2.   In addition to the information required by this Code in
connection with an application for a ministerial permit, a telephone
corporation must submit to the City the following supplemental
information:

         a.   A copy of the certificate of public convenience and
necessity issued by the CPUC to the applicant, and a copy of the CPUC
decision that authorizes the applicant to provide the telecommunications
service for which the facilities are proposed to be constructed in the
City’s public rights-of-way. Any applicant that, prior to 1996, provided
telecommunications service under administratively equivalent
documentation issued by the CPUC may submit copies of that documentation
in lieu of a certificate of public convenience and necessity.

         b.   If the applicant has obtained from the CPUC a certificate
of public convenience and necessity to operate as a “competitive local
carrier,” the following additional requirements are applicable:

            (1)   As required by Decision No. 95-12-057 of the CPUC, the
applicant must establish that it has timely filed with the City a
quarterly report that describes the type of construction and the
location of each construction project proposed to be undertaken in the
City during the calendar quarter in which the application is filed, so
that the City can coordinate multiple projects, as may be necessary.

            (2)   If the applicant’s proposed construction project will
extend beyond the utility rights-of-way into undisturbed areas or other
rights-of-way, the applicant must establish that it has filed a petition
with the CPUC to amend its certificate of public convenience and
necessity and that the proposed construction project has been subjected
to a full-scale environmental analysis by the CPUC, as required by
Decision No. 95-12-057 of the CPUC.

            (3)   The applicant must inform the City whether its
proposed construction project will be subject to any of the mitigation
measures specified in the Negative Declaration [“Competitive Local
Carriers (CLC’s) Projects for Local Exchange Communication Service
throughout California”] or to the Mitigation Monitoring Plan adopted in
connection with Decision No. 95-12-057 of the CPUC. The City’s issuance
of a ministerial permit will be conditioned upon the applicant’s
compliance with all applicable mitigation measures and monitoring
requirements imposed by the CPUC upon telephone corporations that are
designated as “competitive local carriers.”

   C.   The City reserves all rights that it now possesses or may later
acquire with respect to the regulation of any cable or
telecommunications service that is provided, or proposed to be provided,
by a telephone corporation. These reserved rights may relate, without
limitation, to the imposition of reasonable conditions in addition to or
different from those set forth in this Section, the exaction of a fee or
other form of consideration or compensation for use of public
rights-of-way, and related matters; provided, however, that such
regulatory rights and authority must be consistent with Federal and
State law that is applicable to cable or telecommunications services
provided by telephone corporations.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

PART 5.   USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY

5.40.160   Findings; Policies and Procedures.

   A.   The City Council finds and determines that numerous and
repetitive excavations in the public rights-of-way diminish the useful
life of the surface pavement and generally cause adverse negative
impacts for local residents, local businesses, and vehicular and
pedestrian traffic. The City Council further finds and determines that
the utility substructure in the public rights-of-way is subject to
potential adverse negative impacts as a consequence of new economic and
regulatory policies that foster increased competition between various
utility service providers, including telephone corporations, and between
other service providers, such as cable system operators. In order to
mitigate these potential adverse negative impacts, the following
policies are adopted:

      1.   The City Manager is directed to develop and to implement
public rights-of-way policies and procedures that incorporate, to the
extent reasonably feasible and consistent with all applicable laws and
regulations, the following requirements that are intended to encourage
the shared use by utility and other service providers of existing
facilities in the public rights-of-way:

         a.   A requirement that utility and other service providers
requesting permits review information provided by the City that
identifies the location of facilities, such as underground conduits,
that are available for shared use, and the owners of those facilities.

         b.   A requirement that utility and other service providers
requesting permits submit a written statement that describes in
reasonable detail the efforts made to obtain from other utility service
providers the right to use excess capacity within existing facilities,
and to thereby avoid the construction of new facilities.

         c.   A requirement that utility and other service providers
occupying the public rights-of-way submit annually to the City a map,
which may be in an electronic-data format maintained in the ordinary
course of business, that shows the location of their respective
facilities in the public rights-of-way. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
an updated annual map need not be provided unless there are changes to
the location of the service provider’s facilities in the public
rights-of-way.

         d.   Any additional requirements that will encourage utility
and other service providers to share excess capacity within
previously-constructed facilities and to coordinate the construction of
new facilities in order to minimize the number of excavations in the
public rights-of-way.

      2.   The City Manager is directed to ensure that all utility and
other service providers, including telephone corporations and cable
system operators, comply with all local design, construction,
maintenance and safety standards that are consistent with State and
Federal laws and regulations and that are contained within, or are
related to, any permit that authorizes the construction of facilities
within the public rights-of-way, including all applicable insurance
provisions.

      3.   Based upon the City’s projected plans for street construction
or renovation projects, the City Manager is authorized to establish on a
quarterly basis one or more construction time periods or “windows” for
the installation of facilities within arterial or collector streets, or
where City rehabilitation or maintenance activities within the public
rights-of-way will be affected. Cable system operators, telephone
corporations, and other utility service providers that submit
applications for permits to construct facilities after a predetermined
date may be required to delay such construction until the next quarterly
“window” that is established by the City; provided, however, that
exemptions and exceptions may be established for the emergency repair of
facilities within arterial or collector streets, or for safety-related
work that must be completed prior to the next construction time period
or “window.”

   B.   The City Council finds and determines that the installation in
the public rights-of-way of numerous above-ground facilities by utility
service providers, including telephone corporations, and other service
providers may create safety hazards and adverse visual impacts.
Consequently, the City is authorized to impose, in a manner consistent
with all applicable laws and regulations, reasonable conditions in order
to mitigate those potential adverse impacts that may result, whether on
an individual or a cumulative basis, from permitted above-ground
facilities. Those conditions may include or relate to, without
limitation, the following:

      1.   Prior to issuance of the requisite permits, all above-ground
facilities proposed to be installed by a utility or other service
provider in the public rights-of-way must be clearly delineated on the
plans when they are submitted for the City’s review.

      2.   The design and installation by qualified professionals of
landscaping and barriers to minimize public view of above-ground
facilities whose location has been approved by the City.

      3.   The maintenance of all above-ground facilities in good
condition, including compliance with the City’s maintenance standards
and ordinances regarding graffiti removal.

      4.   The placement of above-ground facilities, such as overhead
drops, as close as possible to other utility drops, consistent with all
applicable electrical codes.

      5.   Reasonable limitations upon the number of above-ground
facilities that may be installed within a designated geographical area.

      6.   Reasonable limitations upon the dimensions or volume, or
both, of above-ground facilities.

      7.   The specification of colors, as are available from the
manufacturer used by the service provider, of above-ground facilities
reasonably requested by the City to ensure that these facilities blend
with the surrounding environment to the maximum extent possible.

      8.   Such additional conditions regulating the time, place and
manner of installations of above-ground facilities as will reasonably
mitigate potential safety hazards and adverse visual impacts
attributable to these facilities.

   C.   The City reserves all rights that it now possesses or may later
acquire to adopt and implement City-wide requirements for the
undergrounding of above-ground facilities, or any portion thereof, in a
competitively neutral and non-discriminatory manner. To the extent
authorized by law, all utility and other service providers will be
required to comply with those requirements at their sole expense.

   D.   Disputes relating to the application of the policies, conditions
and limitations set forth in Section 5.40.170 to utility service
providers, cable system operators or other users of the public
rights-of-way are subject to appeal to the City Council.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

PART 6.   VIOLATIONS; SEVERABILITY

5.40.170   Violations; Enforcement.

   A.   Unless precluded by applicable law, any person who violates any
provision of this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and is punishable
as provided for in Title 1 of this Code.

   B.   The misdemeanor penalty specified above in Subsection A. is not
applicable to a violation of any provision of this Chapter for which
another sanction or penalty may be imposed under any franchise, license,
lease or similar written agreement between the City and a multichannel
video programming distributor or telecommunications service provider.

   C.   The City may initiate a civil action in any court of competent
jurisdiction to enjoin any violation of this Chapter.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.180   Severability.

If any provision of this Chapter is determined by any court of competent
jurisdiction, or by any Federal or State agency having jurisdiction over
its subject matter, to be invalid and in conflict with any Federal or
State law or regulation now or hereafter in effect, or is determined by
that court or agency to require modification in order to conform to the
requirements of that paramount law or regulation, then that provision
will be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent part of this
Chapter, and such determination will not affect the validity and
enforceability of any other provisions. If that Federal or State law or
regulation is subsequently repealed or amended so that the provision of
this Chapter determined to be invalid or subject to modification is no
longer in conflict with that law or regulation, then that provision will
again become effective and will thereafter be binding on the City and
any affected cable or telecommunications service provider; provided,
however, that the City must give the affected cable or
telecommunications service provider thirty (30) days written notice of
that change before requiring compliance with that provision, or such
longer period of time as may be reasonably required for the cable or
telecommunications service provider to comply with that provision.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.190   Application of Section 5.40.080.

In adopting this Chapter, it is the intent of the City Council that
Section 5.40.080, titled “Consumer Protection and Service Standards,”
will apply to all franchised video programming distributors, including
Falcon Cable Systems Company II, L.P., dba Charter Communications. To
the extent that any consumer protection and service standard referenced
in uncodified Ordinance No. 324 is inconsistent or in conflict with any
provision of Section 5.40.090, said standard in Ordinance No. 324 is
hereby repealed and superseded. Similarly, to the extent that any
consumer protection and service standard set forth in the Cable
Television Franchise Agreement between the City and Falcon Cable Systems
Company II, L.P., is inconsistent or in conflict with any provision of
Section 5.40.090, said standard in the Cable Television Franchise
Agreement is hereby superseded.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.200   Notice of Adoption.

Following the City Council’s adoption of this Chapter, the City Clerk is
directed to provide a copy by certified mail to the franchised cable
operator, Falcon Cable Systems Company II, L.P., dba Charter
Communications. Upon the expiration of ninety (90) days following the
transmittal of this Chapter to Charter Communications, the provisions of
Section 5.40.080 relating to consumer protection and service standards
will apply to the operation of the cable television system within the
franchise service area under the Cable Television Franchise Agreement
referenced above in Section 3. The authority for this action by the City
is derived from the following sources:

   A.   47 CFR 76.309, titled “Customer Service Obligations,” which
provides in relevant part as follows:

      “(a)   A cable franchise authority may enforce the customer
service standards set forth in paragraph (c) of this Section against
cable operators. The franchise authority must provide affected cable
operators ninety (90) days written notice of its intent to enforce the
standards.”

      “(b)   Nothing in this rule should be construed to prevent or
prohibit:

* * *

         (3)   Any State or any franchising authority from enacting or
enforcing any consumer protection law, to the extent not specifically
preempted herein; or

         (4)   The establishment or enforcement of any State or
municipal law or regulation concerning customer service that imposes
customer service requirements that exceed, or address matters not
addressed by the standards set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.”

   B.   Government Code Sections 53088 et seq., titled the “Video
Customer Service Act.” Section 53088.2(p) of this Act provides as
follows:

      “(p)   Nothing in this division limits the power of a city,
county, or city and county or video provider to adopt and enforce
service standards and consumer protection standards which exceed those
established in this division.”

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.40.210   Continuing Application of Ordinance No. 324.

Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary set forth in this
Chapter, Ordinance No. 324, which is uncodified and titled “Adelanto,
CA, Cable Television Franchise Ordinance,” will continue in full force
and effect. Ordinance No. 324 will continue to be applicable to the
existing Cable Television Franchise Agreement between the City and its
franchised cable operator, Charter Communications, or its duly
authorized assignee or transferee. Ordinance No. 324 is subject to
repeal by the City Council at such time as the franchised cable operator
executes an amendment to the existing cable television franchise
agreement, or executes a cable television franchise renewal agreement,
the terms of which subject the franchised cable operator to Chapter 5.40
of Title 5 of the Municipal Code, as adopted by the ordinance enacting
this Chapter.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.44
FORTUNE TELLING

Sections:

   5.44.010   Fortune Telling and Similar Practices

   5.44.020   Occult Powers and Similar Practices

   5.44.030   Advertising Fortune Telling or Occult Powers

   5.44.040   Exceptions

   5.44.050   Penalty

5.44.010   Fortune Telling and Similar Practices.

Every person who carries on, practices or professes to practice the
business or art of astrology, phrenology, life reading, fortune telling,
cartomancy, clairvoyance, clair-audience, crystal gazing, mediumship,
mesmerism, oriental mysteries, palmistry, spirit photography, spirit
writing, spirit voices, spirit materialization, etherealization,
numerology, physiognomy, psychometry, seership, prophecy, augury,
divination, magic or necromancy, or other similar art or business, and
demands or receives directly or indirectly a fee or reward, or who
accepts any donation for the exercise or exhibition of his art therein,
or who gives an exhibition thereof at any place where an admission fee,
donation or reward is charged or received, directly or indirectly, or
who teaches or gives instruction in any such art or business and demands
or receives, directly or indirectly, a fee or reward, or who accepts any
donation for such teaching or instruction is guilty of a misdemeanor.
[Ord. No. 26, § 1, adopted 5/26/71; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.44.020   Occult Powers and Similar Practices.

Every person who, by means of occult or psychic powers, faculties or
forces, spirits, cards, talismans, charms, potions, magnetism or
magnetized articles or substances, oriental mysteries or any craft or
art described in Section 5.44.010 or similar art or craft, purports or
does, find or restore lost or stolen property, locate oil wells, gold or
silver or other ore or metal or natural product, restore lost love or
friendship or affection, unite or procure lovers, husbands, wives, lost
relatives or friends, or by such means gives any counseling or advise
whatsoever, and who demands or receives directly or indirectly a fee or
reward, or who accepts any donation therefor, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.

[Ord. No. 26, § 2, adopted 5/26/71; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.44.030   Advertising Fortune Telling or Occult Powers.

Every person who advertises by sign, circular, handbill or in any
newspaper, periodical or magazine, or any other publication of
publications, or by any other means, that he will do anything which is
prohibited by this Title is guilty of a misdemeanor.

[Ord. No. 26, § 3, adopted 5/26/71; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.44.040   Exceptions.

The provisions of this Title shall not be construed to include, prohibit
or interfere with the exercise of any religious or spiritual function of
any priest, minister, rector or any accredited representative of any
bona fide church or religion where such priest, minister, rector or any
accredited representative holds a certificate of credit, commission or
ordination under the ecclesiastical laws of a religious corporation,
incorporated under the laws of any state or territory of the United
States of America, or any voluntary religious association, and who fully
conforms to the rites and practices prescribed by the supreme
conferences, convocation, convention, assembly, association or synod of
the system or faith with which they are affiliated. Provided, however,
that any church or religious organization which is organized for the
primary purpose of conferring certificates of commission, credit or
ordination for a price, and not primarily for the purpose of teaching
and practicing a religious doctrine or belief, shall not be deemed to be
a bona fide church or religious organization. This Title shall not apply
to any magician practicing his business or art for the purpose of
entertainment or amusement. The provisions of this Title shall not apply
to any physician, surgeon, psychologist or dentist licensed under the
Business and Professions Code of the State of California.

[Ord. No. 26, § 4, adopted 5/26/71; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.44.050   Penalty.

A violation of this Chapter or any provision thereof shall be punishable
by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.

[Ord. No. 26, Section 5, adopted 5/26/71; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.48
TAXICABS

Sections:

   5.48.010   License Required

   5.48.020   Application for Taxicab Service License

   5.48.030   Grounds for Denial or Revocation of Taxicab Service
License

   5.48.040   Application for a Taxicab Driver’s License

   5.48.050   Grounds for Denial or Revocation of Taxicab Driver’s
License

   5.48.060   Exemptions

5.48.010   License Required.

   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
operating or causing to be operated any taxicab service within the
incorporated area of the City, without having a license to do so under
the provisions of this Chapter.

   B.   It is unlawful for any person to drive a taxicab in the
incorporated area of the City without having a taxicab driver’s license
to do so under the provisions of this Chapter. A copy of the City
license shall be prominently displayed in each vehicle at all times.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.48.020   Application for Taxicab Service License.

Any person desiring to obtain a license to operate a taxicab service
under this Chapter shall submit a written application pursuant to
Section 5.04.070 to the Collector. In addition to the information
required by Section 5.04.070, the following information shall be
provided:

   A.   The number of vehicles to be operated under the permit;

   B.   The make, type, year, manufacturer, vehicle license number and
passenger seating of the vehicles to be used by the applicant;

   C.   The proposed color scheme, insignia or other distinguishable
characteristics of the taxicab to be used, including the type of
illuminated sign to be mounted on the top of the vehicle and legend
thereon;

   D.   Evidence of public liability insurance of not less than one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for each person killed or injured
and not less than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for
injury or death of any two (2) or more persons in any one accident, and
for damages to property of at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
from any one accident;

   E.   Legal and registered ownership of the vehicles to be used by the
applicant. It shall be the licensee’s responsibility to notify the
Collector of any changes in vehicles registered to their license;

   F.   Prior experience of the applicant and each driver in the taxicab
business, including any prior denial, revocation or suspension by any
public agency of any taxicab service or taxicab driving permit, license
or certificate for a period of five (5) years prior to application;

   G.   All felony convictions or those involving a crime of moral
turpitude of the applicant and of all persons having an ownership
interest in the proposed taxicab service;

   H.   Written evidence satisfactory to the City that each driver
employed by the applicant has complied, and currently complies, with the
provisions of Government Code Section 53075.5(b)(3), or any successor
provision thereto, pertaining to pre-employment and periodic testing of
drivers for controlled substances and alcohol, and with provisions
therein pertaining to payment for drug and alcohol testing programs and
related reporting requirements.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.48.030   Grounds for Denial or Revocation of Taxicab Service License.

In addition to the provisions of Chapter 5.04, taxicab service license
shall be denied or revoked by the Collector on the following grounds:

   A.   Failure to have or maintain insurance as required by this
Chapter at all times;

   B.   Failure to maintain vehicles in good and safe order and in
compliance with all laws;

   C.   The application is found to contain inaccurate, false,
misleading or fraudulent statements or omissions of material facts or
the application was not accompanied by all required supporting
documentation;

   D.   Failure to pay any fees as required under this Title;

   E.   A driver’s conviction of more than two (2) violations of any
state laws pertaining to the operation of a motor vehicle in any
calendar year;

   F.   Employing of a driver who does not have a valid taxicab driver’s
license under the requirements of this Chapter;

   G.   Violation of any provisions of this Chapter or this Code.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.48.040   Application for a Taxicab Driver’s License.

   A.   Any person desiring to obtain a taxicab driver’s license shall
submit a written application and all supporting documentation to the
Collector. In addition to the information required by Section 5.04.070,
the following information shall be required:

      1.   Pertinent personal data and proof of possession of a valid
Class 3 driver’s license issued by the State of California;

      2.   Physical and mental condition, including any condition that
might hinder or impair his or her ability to safely drive a taxicab;

      3.   Motor vehicle record for three (3) years prior to
application;

      4.   Any criminal convictions of the applicant during the previous
three (3) years;

      5.   Experience in driving motor vehicles, taxis and other
vehicles for hire during the previous five (5) years;

      6.   The name and address of the taxicab service by whom the
applicant will be employed;

      7.   Written evidence satisfactory to the city that, within the
previous year, the applicant tested negative for controlled substances
and/or alcohol, as specified and required in Government Code Section
53075.5(b)(3), or any successor provision thereto.

   B.   Each applicant shall be fingerprinted and photographed by the
Police Department and a criminal records check shall be conducted on the
applicant. The applicant will be required to pay the sheriff’s
established fees for such services in addition to the taxicab driver’s
license fee. A driver obtaining a permit renewal need not be
fingerprinted and photographed if the Chief of Police determines that
such is not necessary for proper administration of this Chapter.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.48.050   Grounds for Denial or Revocation of Taxicab Driver’s License.

In addition to the provisions of Chapter 5.04, a taxicab driver’s
license shall be denied or revoked by the Collector on the following
grounds:

   A.   The person does not possess a valid Class 3 driver’s license
issued by the State of California;

   B.   The person is less than eighteen (18) years of age;

   C.   The person is required to register pursuant to Penal Code
Section 290;

   D.   The person has been convicted of a crime involving moral
turpitude, soliciting for prostitution, narcotics or dangerous drugs,
unless a period of not less than three (3) years has elapsed since the
date of conviction or the date of release from confinement for such
offense, whichever is later;

   E.   The person has been convicted for driving a motor vehicle
recklessly or under the influence of a controlled substance within the
preceding three (3) years preceding the date of his or her application
for a license;

   F.   Conviction of more than two (2) violations of any State law
pertaining to the operation of a motor vehicle in any calendar year;

   G.   Driving any taxicab the driver knew or should have known was not
in good order and repair;

   H.   The application is found to contain inaccurate, false,
misleading or fraudulent statements or omissions of material facts or
the application was not accompanied by all required supporting
documentation;

   I.   The person has committed a violation of any of the provisions of
this Chapter or of this Code.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.48.060   Exemptions.

This Chapter shall not apply to public transportation service being
performed pursuant to a contract or franchise with the City or any other
public entity in this State.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.52
THEATERS

Sections:

   5.52.010   Application Requirements

   5.52.020   Viewing Area

   5.52.030   Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited

   5.52.040   Exemptions

5.52.010   Application Requirements.

In addition to the application requirements specified in Section
5.04.070, the following shall be required:

   A.   A statement that the applicant, licensee, his agent, employee or
any person connected with the licensee as partner, director, officer,
stockholder, general manager or other associate has not:

      1.   Knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent statement
of a fact in an application for a license or in any statements made to
City departments, the local fire authority or the Police Department
investigating the application; or

      2.   Violated any provision of this Chapter or any statute
relating to his permitted activity; or

      3.   Been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude; or

      4.   Committed any unlawful, fraudulent or dangerous act while
conducting the permitted business; or

      5.   Violated any rule or regulation adopted by the City Council
relating to the licensee’s business; or

      6.   Conducted the licensed business in a manner contrary to the
peace, health, safety or general welfare of the public; or

      7.   Failed to comply with zoning, building and safety regulations
of the City, the San Bernardino County Environmental Health Services
Department, or the Adelanto fire district prior to the commencement of
business operations.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.52.020   Viewing Area.

   A.   It is unlawful to maintain, operate or manage or permit to be
maintained, operated or managed any theater in which the viewing areas
are not visible from a continuous main aisle or are obscured by a
curtain, door, wall or other enclosure. For purposes of this Section,
“viewing area” means the area where a patron or customer is positioned
while watching the performance, picture, show or film, and the internal
configuration of each viewing area shall be such that the activities of
the patron or customer viewing the performance, picture, show or film
are visible from the main aisle. For purposes of this Section,
“obscured” means covered at any point from the surface upon which a
patron or customer’s feet are placed to a point forty-eight (48) inches
above that surface. Violation of this Section shall constitute a
misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by a fine of not more that one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), by imprisonment for not more than six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.

   B.   Any theater lawfully in existence prior to the adoption of or
any amendment to this Chapter shall conform to the provisions of this
Chapter within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this Chapter.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.52.030   Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited.

It is unlawful for any person to sell, furnish, give away or permit
anyone to consume any alcoholic beverage in any theater. It is also
unlawful for any person to possess, consume or be under the influence of
any alcoholic beverage while in any theater.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.52.040   Exemptions.

Any provision of this Chapter may be waived by action of the City
Council in writing as to any civic, educational, charitable or other
noncommercial presentation or event.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.56
GRADING OF FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS

Sections:

   5.56.010   Purpose, Findings and Intent

   5.56.020   Scope

   5.56.030   Adoption of the San Bernardino County Code

   5.56.040   Enforcement Agency Designated

   5.56.050   Schedule and Collection of Fees

   5.56.060   Violations - Penalty

5.56.010   Purpose, Findings and Intent.

   A.   This Section is adopted by the City Council pursuant to the
City’s police powers to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
public.

   B.   Government Code Sections 50022.2 and 50022.9 authorize local
agencies to enact ordinances that adopt any County Code, ordinance or
part thereof by reference.

   C.   On June 22,2004, the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors
enacted County Ordinance No. 3930 to adopt certain amendments to the San
Bernardino County Department of Public Health to fully enforce the
Program in the City, it is necessary to adopt by reference County
Ordinance No. 3930.

   D.   The Program became operative in the unincorporated areas of the
County of San Bernardino on October 1, 2004, but in order for the San
Bernardino County Department of Health to fully enforce the Program in
the City, it is necessary to adopt by reference County Ordinance No.
3930.

   E.   Inspections of food establishments are a means of protecting
public health, and the display of the Inspection Grading Summary Report
provides consumers with important information regarding health and
sanitary conditions in food establishments.

   F.   In order to promote the health, safety and welfare of residents,
consumers and visitors to the City, the City Council desires to have the
Program become operative within the corporate boundaries of the City.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.56.020   Scope.

The provisions of this Chapter for the Inspection Grading of Food
Establishments shall apply at all times, or at those times herein
specified, anywhere within the City that any food and/or beverage
products are sold or served.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.56.030   Adoption of the San Bernardino County Code.

   A.   The City adopts by reference, and makes a part of this Chapter
by reference, San Bernardino County Ordinance No. 3930, entitled:

      “An Ordinance of the County of San Bernardino, State of
California, Adding Chapter 14 Division 3 of Title 3 and Adding
Subsection 16.0213B(b)(17) to Chapter 2 of Division 6 of Title 1, All of
the San Bernardino County Code, Relating to Inspection Grading of Food
Establishments.”

   B.   The aforementioned Sections of the San Bernardino County Code,
adopted by San Bernardino County Ordinance No. 3930, are adopted as the
Inspection Grading of Food Establishments Program of the City (the
“Program”).

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.56.040   Enforcement Agency Designated.

The County of San Bernardino Department of Environmental Health Services
is designated as the enforcement agency for the City and is authorized
to provide the qualified personnel necessary to enforce the provisions
of this Chapter.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.56.050   Schedule and Collection of Fees.

The schedule of fees contained within San Bernardino County Ordinance
No. 3930, adopted herein, is hereby adopted as the fees in effect in the
City, and shall be applicable within the city to provide for the costs
of administration and enforcement of this Chapter. The City Council
finds and determines that the fees adopted herein are reasonably related
to the actual cost of administration and enforcement of the Program. The
San Bernardino County Department of Environmental Health Services shall
administer and collect these fees for deposit with the County Treasurer
to offset the costs assumed by the County in administering and enforcing
this Program for and within the City.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.56.060   Violations - Penalty.

   A.   In accordance with San Bernardino County Code Section
33.14106(c), adopted by reference herein and applicable to this Chapter,
the letter grade card posted in accordance with the Program shall not be
defaced, marred, camouflaged, hidden or removed. It shall be unlawful to
operate a food establishment unless the letter grade is posted. Removal
of the letter grade card is a violation of this Chapter and may result
in the suspension or revocation of the Public Health Permit and shall be
punishable as specified in San Bernardino County Code Section 33.0112,
which is adopted by reference herein and applicable to this Chapter.

   B.   In addition, any violation of this Section may be punishable in
accordance with Chapter 1.20 of this Code.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.60
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS

Sections:

   5.60.010   Purpose and Intent

   5.60.020   General Definitions

   5.60.030   Massage Therapy Permits Required

   5.60.040   Location

   5.60.050   Special Massage Therapy Events Permit

   5.60.060   Temporary Personal and Outcall Massage Therapy Permits

   5.60.070   Consent

   5.60.080   Certificate of Occupancy

   5.60.090   Business License

   5.60.100   City Manager’s Responsibility

   5.60.110   Massage Therapy Establishment Permit Application

   5.60.120   Personal Massage Therapist Permit Application

   5.60.130   Outcall Massage Therapist Permit Application

   5.60.140   Processing Application

   5.60.150   Denial of Application and Grounds for Denial

   5.60.160   Exemptions

   5.60.170   Appeal of Denial

   5.60.180   Current Information

   5.60.190   Renewal of Permit

   5.60.200   Massage Therapy Establishments; Inspections

   5.60.210   Massage Therapy Establishments; Exterior Lighting

   5.60.220   Massage Therapy Establishments; Exterior Signage

   5.60.230   Massage Therapy Establishments; Exterior Views

   5.60.240   Massage Therapy Establishments; Posting Requirements

   5.60.250   Massage Therapy Establishments; Reception Area

   5.60.260   Massage Therapy Establishments; Massage Therapy Rooms

   5.60.270   Massage Therapy Establishments; Client Registration

   5.60.280   Massage Therapy Establishments; Dress and Identification

   5.60.290   Massage Therapy Establishments; Hours of Operation

   5.60.300   Massage Therapy Establishments; Showers, Baths and Toilets

   5.60.310   Massage Therapy Establishments; Sanitary Conditions

   5.60.320   Massage Therapy Establishments; Loudspeakers and Sound
Equipment

   5.60.330   Outcall Massage Therapy; Client Registration

   5.60.340   Outcall Massage Therapy; Dress and Identification

   5.60.350   Outcall Massage Therapy; Hours of Services

   5.60.360   Prohibited Activities

   5.60.370   Transfer of Ownership

   5.60.380   Relocation

   5.60.390   Change of On-site Manager

   5.60.400   Reference Applies to Amendments

   5.60.410   Computation of Time

   5.60.420   Nonconforming Uses and Permits

   5.60.430   Suspension and Revocation

   5.60.440   Enforcement; Separate Offense for Each Day

   5.60.450   Public Nuisance

   5.60.460   Criminal Penalties

   5.60.470   Civil Fines

   5.60.480   Civil Injunction

   5.60.490   Administrative Remedies

   5.60.500   Additional Remedies

   5.60.510   Regulations Nonexclusive

   5.60.520   Massage Establishments that Only Use Massage Therapists
Certified Under State Law

5.60.010   Purpose and Intent.

   A.   The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the public’s health
and safety and the personal safety of massage therapists through the
establishment of certain licensing standards pertaining to massage
therapy business activities within the City and to recognize massage
therapy as a legitimate business occupation and health enhancement
service.

   B.   This Chapter is not intended to permit any of the following
uses, conduct, and/or activities which are specifically prohibited under
the following Penal Code sections:

      1.   Section 266(d) which prohibits receipt of money for placement
of any person for purposes of cohabitation;

      2.   Section 266(e) which prohibits the purchase of any person for
purposes of prostitution or placement of any person for immoral
purposes;

      3.   Section 266(f) which prohibits the sale of any person for
immoral purposes;

      4.   Section 266(h) which prohibits pimping;

      5.   Section 266(i) which prohibits pandering;

      6.   Section 314 which prohibits lewd or obscene conduct;

      7.   Section 315 which prohibits houses of ill-fame;

      8.   Section 316 which prohibits disorderly houses which disturb
the immediate neighborhood;

      9.   Section 317 which prohibits places of prostitution;

      10.   Section 11225 which prohibits places of prostitution, places
of lewdness, or places used as a bathhouse permitting conduct capable of
transmitting AIDS; and

      11.   Section 647(a) which prohibits lewd conduct.

   C.   This Chapter is not intended to apply to cosmetologists,
barbers, or to persons licensed to practice any healing under the
provisions of Division 2 (commencing with Section 500) of the Business
and Professions Code where such persons are solely providing certain
massage therapy services which are specifically exempted from local
regulation pursuant to state law. This Chapter, however, shall apply to
those above-mentioned practitioners who intend to provide any massage
therapy services that are beyond the scope of the massage therapy
services specifically exempted from local regulation by State law.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.020   General Definitions.

   A.   The following words and phrases when used in this Chapter shall,
for the purposes of this Chapter, have the meanings ascribed to them in
this Section:

      1.   “Certified Copy” means a copy of a document that is certified
by the issuer as being a true and accurate copy of the original document
or a similar document bearing an original signature of the issuer.

      2.   “Certified Statement” means a written assertion, claim or
declaration bearing the original signature of the issuer.

      3.   “City” means the City of Adelanto.

      4.   “City Manager” means the City Manager of the City of
Adelanto.

      5.   “Client” means any person who receives a massage in exchange
for any form of consideration including, but not limited to, the payment
of money.

      6.   “Communicable Disease” means tuberculosis, or any disease
which may be transmitted from a massage therapist to a client through
normal physical contact during the performance of any massage service as
permitted under this Chapter.

      7.   “Complete Application” means an application which provides
all of the requisite information required to be provided by an applicant
pursuant to this Chapter and is accompanied by the requisite application
deposit fees.

      8.   “Director” means the Director of the Department of Community
Development.

      9.   “Employee” means a person who works for any permittee,
regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the permittee.

      10.   “Establishment” means any of the following: (1) the opening
or commencement of a massage therapy related business as a new business
or as an accessory use to an existing business, (2) the conversion of an
existing business, whether or not it is a massage therapy business, to
any other type of massage therapy business as defined in this Chapter,
(3) the relocation of any massage therapy business to any other
location, or (4) the substantial enlargement of an existing massage
therapy business.

      11.   “Filing Date of Application” means the date on which the
City determines that a complete application has been submitted to the
City by the applicant.

      12.   “Full Nudity” or “Semi-nudity” means any of the following:
(1) the appearance or display of an anus, male or female genital, public
region, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola, and/or (2) a state of undress which less than completely and
opaquely covers an anus, male or female genital, public region or a
female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.

      13.   “Massage” means any method of pressure on, or friction
against, or stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating,
or stimulating the external parts of the human body, excluding any
specified anatomical area other than the gluteal region, with the hands
or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliances,
with or without supplementary aids such as creams, ointments, or other
similar preparations commonly used in the practice of massage, under
such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the person to
whom the treatment is provided or some third person on his or her behalf
will pay money or give any other consideration or any gratuity therefor.

      14.   “Massage Therapy Establishment” or “Massage Establishment”
means any commercial establishment with one or more employees having a
source of income or compensation derived from the practice of massage
and which has a fixed place of business and a valid City business
license.

      15.   “Massage Therapist” means an individual who has obtained a
permit as required by this Chapter to engage in the practice of massage
for compensation, whether in a massage establishment as an employee or
independent contractor or on an outcall massage therapy basis.

      16.   “On-site Manager” means the person who supervises, directs
or manages the employees including, but not limited to, all massage
therapists performing massage therapy services at a massage therapy
establishment.

      17.   “Operator” means any of the following: (1) the owner, (2)
the permit holder, (3) custodian, (4) manager, or (5) person in charge
of any massage therapy establishment.

      18.   “Outcall Massage Therapist” means any individual who engages
in or performs massages for consideration at a remote and not at a fixed
location.

      19.   “Permit” means a massage therapy permit as required by this
Chapter that is a written license to engage in the practice of massage
for compensation, whether as a massage therapy establishment, an outcall
massage therapist or a personal massage therapist authorized to perform
massage therapy as an employee or independent contractor at a massage
therapy establishment.

      20.   “Permittee” means the person in whose name a permit to
operate or perform certain massage therapy business activities has been
issued pursuant to this Chapter whether for the operation of a massage
therapy establishment or an outcall massage therapy service or as a
personal massage therapist.

      21.   “Person” means any of the following: (1) an individual, (2)
a proprietorship, (3) a partnership, (4) a corporation, (5) an
association, or (6) any other legal entity.

      22.   “Personal Massage Therapist” means any person who is
permitted under this Chapter to perform massage activities as an
employee of a massage therapy establishment or an independent contractor
at a massage therapy establishment.

      23.   “Police Chief” means the Chief of Police of the City of
Adelanto.

      24.   “Reception Area” means the area of a massage therapy
establishment where clients or other persons enter the business and are
greeted and/or received by the operator, personal massage therapist
and/or other employee of said business, or otherwise check in for their
massage therapy sessions.

      25.   “Recognized School of Massage” means any school or
educational institution licensed or approved by the state in which it is
located, whose purpose it is to upgrade the professionalism of massage
therapists and which teaches the theory, ethics, practice, profession or
work of massage and which requires a resident course of study before the
student shall be furnished with a diploma or a certificate of graduation
from such school or institution of learning following the successful
completion of such course of study or learning. Schools offering a
correspondence course not requiring actual attendance shall not be
deemed a recognized school.

      26.   “Specified Anatomical Area” means human genitals, public
region, anus, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola.

      27.   “Specified Sexual Activities” means any of the following:
(1) the fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, public
region, anus, or female breasts, (2) sex acts, normal or perverted,
actual or simulated, including, but not limited to, intercourse, oral
copulation, masturbation, or sodomy, or (3) excretory functions as part
of or in connection with the fondling or other erotic touching of human
genitals, public region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts, sex acts,
normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation, masturbation, or sodomy.

      28.   “Stand-alone Massage Therapy Establishment” means a massage
therapy establishment that is operated as the predominant business
activity on the subject premises rather than as an accessory use to a
barbershop, beauty salon, hotel or resort, or any other type of
business.

      29.   “Transfer of Ownership or Control of a Massage Therapy
Establishment” means any of the following, whether voluntary or
involuntary: (1) the sale, lease or sublease of the business, (2) the
transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means, or (3) the
establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise which
transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing
the ownership or control.

   B.   Where terms are not specifically defined in this Chapter, in
this Code, in any applicable statute, rule, code or regulation, or in
any of the uniform codes adopted and incorporated by reference by this
Code, they shall have the meanings set forth in their ordinary accepted
meanings within the context with which they are used. The most current
edition of Webster’s Third New International Dictionary of the English
Language, Unabridged, shall be construed as providing ordinary accepted
meanings for any duly adopted City policy or regulation described in
this Chapter.

   C.   Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural the
singular.

   D.   Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine and the
feminine the masculine.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.030   Massage Therapy Permits Required.

   A.   A person may operate, maintain, run, or manage a massage therapy
establishment only if that person has been validly issued a massage
therapy establishment permit by the City pursuant to this Chapter for
the subject massage therapy establishment.

   B.   A person may perform, practice, administer, or conduct massages
in exchange for money, gratuities, or any other legal consideration at a
massage therapy establishment only if that person has been validly
issued a personal massage therapist permit by the City pursuant to this
Chapter for the subject massage therapy establishment.

   C.   A person may operate, maintain, run, or manage an outcall
massage therapy service only if that person has been validly issued an
outcall massage therapist permit by the City pursuant to this Chapter
for the subject outcall massage services.

   D.   A person may perform, practice, administer, or conduct massages
in exchange for money, gratuities, or any other legal consideration at
their residence only if that person has been validly issued a personal
massage therapist permit and a home occupation permit by the City
pursuant to the applicable regulations for the subject personal massage
services.

   E.   The provisions set forth in this Section apply to the
“establishment,” as defined in Section 5.60.020, of any massage therapy
establishment or outcall massage therapy service.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.040   Location.

Massage therapy establishments may be located as a stand alone use or as
an accessory use to a barber shop or beauty parlor in any land use zone
in which barber shops and/or beauty parlors are permitted or
conditionally permitted provided that the proposed location of the
massage therapy establishment is not located within three hundred (300)
feet from a parcel upon which a sexually oriented business is located
which shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures, from the closest exterior structural wall of
each business.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.050   Special Massage Therapy Events Permit.

   A.   When extra massage therapists are required for a one-day special
event at a massage therapy establishment permitted to operate in the
City pursuant to this Chapter, the permittee shall supply the City with
the following information on an application provided by the City:

      1.   The name of the applicant;

      2.   The address of the special event;

      3.   A copy of the massage therapy establishment permit validly
issued by the City pursuant to this Chapter;

      4.   A list of the massage therapists who will be working at the
special event;

      5.   Copies of each massage therapists' diploma or certificate of
graduation from a recognized school of massage verifying that the
massage therapist has completed at least one hundred (100) hours of
massage therapy training;

      6.   Copies of any validly issued massage therapy license or
permit the participating massage therapists may have from other cities;

      7.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by each
participating massage therapist that he or she does not have any
communicable disease which is capable of being transmitted to clients
through the kind of physical contact normally associated with the
massage activities described in this Chapter;

      8.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by each
participating massage therapist that provides that he or she has not
been convicted of any of the following: (a) pandering as set forth in
Penal Code Section 266(i), (b) keeping or residing in a house of
ill-fame as set forth in Penal Code Section 315, (c) keeping a
disorderly house as set forth in Penal Code Section 316, (d) prevailing
upon a person to visit a place of illegal gambling or prostitution as
set forth in Penal Code Section 318, (e) lewd conduct as set forth in
Penal Code Section 647(a), or (f) prostitution activities as set forth
in Penal Code Section 647(a) or (b);

      9.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by each
participating massage therapist that provides that he or she has not
been convicted in any other state of any offense which, if committed or
attempted in this state, would have been punishable as one or more of
the offenses set forth in Penal Code Sections 266(i), 315, 316, 318 or
647(a) or (b);

      10.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by each
participating massage therapist that provides that the applicant is not
required to register as a sex offender as set forth in Penal Code
Section 290;

      11.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by each
participating massage therapist that provides that he or she has not
been convicted of any felony offense involving the sale of any
controlled substance specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054,
11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058; and

      12.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by each
participating massage therapist that provides that he or she has not
been convicted in any other state of any offense which, if committed or
attempted in this state, would have been punishable as a felony offense
involving the sale of any controlled substance specified in Health and
Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058.

   B.   Each participating massage therapist shall provide the Police
Department with the current processing fee and with the authorization to
conduct the necessary background investigations to determine the
truthfulness and correctness of the information provided by applicant.

   C.   All of the above information shall be submitted to the City at
least seven (7) days prior to the date of the special event.

   D.   The applicant shall pay an application deposit fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each one (1) day permit at the time of
filing an application pursuant to this Section. If additional funds are
necessary to cover the above costs, the applicant shall pay such
additional costs to the City before further processing of the
application may proceed. Any unused portion of the deposit shall be
refunded to the applicant.

   E.   Grounds for denial of the special event permit shall include any
of the grounds for denial set forth in Section 5.60.150.A or grounds for
suspension and revocation set forth in Section 5.60.430.B.

   F.   The decision of the City Manager or his/her designee shall be
final.

   G.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to permit such
massage therapists to perform or conduct any massage therapist
activities at any other location in the, City at any other time, unless
such massage therapist has obtained a validly issued massage therapist
permit pursuant to this Chapter.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.060   Temporary Personal and Outcall Massage Therapist Permits.

   A.   The City Manager or his/her designee may issue a temporary
massage therapy permit to any person whose application is pending for a
personal or outcall massage therapy permit pursuant to this Chapter,
provided that the applicant has a personal or outcall massage therapy
permit validly issued by another jurisdiction which has permit
provisions comparable to the permit provisions of this Chapter.

   B.   Comparable provisions shall include, but not be limited to, the
fingerprinting, medical clearance and background clearance requirements
set forth in this Chapter.

   C.   All temporary permits shall automatically expire thirty (30)
days after the date of issuance of the subject temporary permit or on
the date a decision is made by the City Manager, or his/her designee, on
the respective massage therapy permit application, whichever occurs
first. The City Manager shall have the discretion to extend the term of
any temporary permit an additional thirty (30) days provided that the
entire term of the subject temporary permit does not exceed a total
period of ninety (90) days.

   D.   The decision of the City Manager shall be final.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.070   Consent.

By applying for a permit under this Chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this Chapter and to the
exercise by the City’s officials, representatives and employees charged
with implementing and/or enforcing the provisions set forth in this
Chapter.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.080   Certificate of Occupancy.

No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any newly constructed
structure or substantial expansion or enlargement of a structure that
will contain a massage therapy establishment until a massage therapy
establishment permit has been validly issued for the subject premises
pursuant to this Chapter.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.090   Business License.

No business license shall be issued to any person for any massage
therapy business unless such person has first obtained a validly issued
massage therapy establishment permit or an outcall massage therapy
permit pursuant to this Chapter.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.100   City Manager’s Responsibilities.

The City Manager or his/her designee shall be responsible for granting
or denying all massage therapy permits described in this Chapter, and
such permits shall only be granted or denied pursuant to the provisions
described herein or any other applicable law.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.110   Massage Therapy Establishment Permit Application.

   A.   An application for a massage therapy establishment permit shall
be made on a form provided by the City.

   B.   The following information and the following documents must be
submitted with all applications for massage therapy establishment
permits:

      1.   If the applicant is:

         a.   An individual, the applicant shall provide his/her legal
name, any aliases, and date of birth,

         b.   A partnership, the applicant shall provide the complete
name of the partnership, the legal names of all the general partners,
any aliases, and dates of birth,

         c.   A corporation, the applicant shall provide the complete
name of the corporation, the legal names and any aliases, dates of birth
and capacity of all officers;

      2.   The name of the business;

      3.   The name of the prospective on-site manager, if different
from the applicant;

      4.   The location of the proposed massage therapy establishment,
including a legal description of the property, street address, and
telephone number(s) currently in service;

      5.   The applicant’s home and/or business address and the home
and/or business address of the prospective on-site manager if other than
the applicant;

      6.   A recent photograph of the applicant and the prospective
on-site manager if other than the applicant;

      7.   Driver’s license number or identification number of the
applicant and the prospective on-site manager if other than the
applicant;

      8.   The applicant’s and the prospective on-site manager’s, if
other than the applicant, fingerprints taken by the police department or
other law enforcement agency within the previous sixty (60) days, and
approved by the Chief of Police;

      9.   The applicant’s and the prospective on-site manager’s, if
other than the applicant, Social Security numbers and/or State or
Federally issued tax identification number;

      10.   The previous addresses of applicant and the prospective
on-site manager, if other than the applicant for the ten (10) years
prior to the date of the application and the dates of residency at each
such address;

      11.   The names, addresses and descriptions of all current and
former businesses owned, operated or managed by applicant and
prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant for the ten
(10) years prior to the date of the application and the dates the
applicant and the prospective on-site manager owned, operated or managed
such business;

      12.   If the application is for a stand alone massage therapy
establishment, a sealed certified transcript and a certified copy of the
applicant’s or prospective on-site manager’s (if other than applicant)
diploma or certificate of graduation from a recognized school of massage
verifying that the applicant has completed at least six hundred (600)
hours of massage therapy training;

      13.   A list of all of applicant’s and prospective on-site
manager’s, if other than the applicant convictions, excluding traffic
violations;

      14.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant and prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant,
that provides that the declarant has 266(i), (b) keeping or residing in
a house of ill-fame as set forth in Penal Code Section 315, (c) keeping
a disorderly house as set forth in Penal Code Section 316, (d)
prevailing upon a person to visit a place of illegal gambling or
prostitution as set forth in Penal Code Section 318, (e) lewd conduct as
set forth in Penal Code Section 647(a), or (f) prostitution activities
as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(b);

      15.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant and prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant,
that provides that the declarant has not been convicted in any other
state of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this state,
would have been punishable as one or more of the offenses set forth in
Penal Code Sections 266(i), 315, 316, 318 or 647(a) or (b);

      16.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant and prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant,
that provides that the declarant is not required to register as a sex
offender as set forth in Penal Code Section 290;

      17.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant and prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant,
that provides that the declarant has not been convicted of any felony
offense involving the sale of any controlled substance specified in
Health and Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;

      18.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant and prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant,
that provides that the declarant has not been convicted in any other
state of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this state,
would have been punishable as a felony offense involving the sale of any
controlled substance specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054,
11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;

      19.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant and prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant,
regarding whether the declarant has had a previous massage therapy
establishment permit, an outcall massage therapist permit, a personal
massage therapist permit or any other massage permit issued pursuant to
this Chapter or any other similar massage permit ordinance of the City
or other jurisdiction, which was denied, suspended or revoked; and if
any such denial, suspension or revocation occurred, the declarant shall
provide the name and location of the massage establishment for which the
license or permit was denied, suspended or revoked, the date of the
denial, suspension or revocation, and the reason or reasons for the
denial, suspension or revocation;

      20.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant and prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant,
regarding whether the declarant has been a sole proprietor, general
partner, officer, or director of any massage establishment or other
massage business that has had a previous massage establishment permit or
other massage permit issued pursuant to this Chapter or any other
similar massage ordinance of the City or other jurisdiction which was
denied, suspended or revoked and if any such denial, suspension or
revocation occurred, the declarant shall provide the name and location
of the massage establishment or business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked, the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, and the reason or reasons for the denial, suspension or
revocation;

      21.   A certified statement from the real property owner
authorizing the proposed use of the premises as a massage establishment;
and

      22.   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the
premises of the massage establishment, drawn to a designated scale or
drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six (6) inches, including a statement of total
floor space occupied by the massage establishment.

   C.   The applicant shall provide proof of legal title or a possessory
or leasehold interest in the real property upon which the proposed
massage establishment will be operated.

   D.   The applicant and the prospective on-site manager, if other than
the applicant, shall provide the police department with the current
processing fee and with the authorization to conduct the necessary
background investigations to determine the truthfulness and correctness
of the information provided by applicant and to determine whether
applicant is qualified pursuant to this Chapter to receive the requested
massage therapy establishment permit.

   E.   The applicant and the prospective on-site manager, if other than
the applicant, shall date and sign the application under penalty of
perjury that the information contained in the application is true and
correct.

   F.   The applicant shall pay an application deposit fee of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) at the time of filing an application pursuant
to this Section, to pay for the administrative costs associated with the
Community Development Department’s review of the application. If
additional funds are necessary to cover the above costs, the applicant
shall pay such additional costs to the city before further processing of
the application may proceed. Any unused portion of the deposit shall be
refunded to the applicant.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.120   Personal Massage Therapist Permit Application.

   A.   An application for a personal massage therapist permit shall be
made on a form provided by the City.

   B.   The following information and the following documents must be
submitted with all applications for personal massage therapist permits:

      1.   The applicant’s legal name, any aliases and date of birth;

      2.   The name of the applicant’s massage therapy establishment
employer or prospective massage therapy establishment employer;

      3.   The applicant’s home and business addresses;

      4.   The previous home addresses of applicant for the ten (10)
years prior to the filing date of the application and the dates of
residency at each such address;

      5.   The names, addresses and descriptions of all current and
former businesses owned, operated or managed by applicant for the ten
(10) years prior to the filing date of the application and the dates
applicant owned, operated or managed such business;

      6.   A recent photograph of the applicant;

      7.   The applicant’s driver’s license number or identification
number;

      8.   The applicant’s fingerprints taken by the Police Department
or other law enforcement agency within the previous sixty (60) days, and
approved by the Chief of Police;

      9.   The applicant’s Social Security number and/or State or
Federally issued tax identification number;

      10.   Certified copy of the applicant’s diploma or certificate of
graduation from a state recognized school of massage and a sealed
certified transcript verifying that the applicant has completed at least
three hundred (300) hours of massage therapy training;

      11.   A certified statement from a physician licensed to practice
medicine in the United States that provides that the applicant has,
within sixty (60) days prior to the filing date of the application, been
examined by said physician and it has been determined that the applicant
is free of any communicable disease which is capable of being
transmitted to clients through the physical contact that is normally
associated with the massage activities described in this Chapter;

      12.   A list of all of applicant’s convictions, excluding traffic
violations;

      13.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant that provides that the applicant has not been convicted of any
of the following: (a) pandering as set forth in Penal Code Section
266(i), (b) keeping or residing in a house of ill-fame as set forth in
Penal Code Section 315, (c) keeping a disorderly house as set forth in
Penal Code Section 316, (d) prevailing upon a person to visit a place of
illegal gambling or prostitution as set forth in Penal Code Section 318,
(e) lewd conduct as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(a), or (f)
prostitution activities as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(a) or
(b);

      14.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant that provides that the applicant has not been convicted in any
other state of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this
state, would have been punishable as one or more of the offenses set
forth in Penal Code Sections 266(i), 315, 316, 318 or 647(a) or (b);

      15.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant that provides that the applicant is not required to register
as a sex offender as set forth in Penal Code Section 290;

      16.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant that provides that the applicant has not been convicted of any
felony offense involving the sale of any controlled substance specified
in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;

      17.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant that provides that the applicant has not been convicted in any
other state of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this
state, would have been punishable as a felony offense involving the sale
of any controlled substance specified in Health and Safety Code Sections
11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;

      18.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant regarding whether the applicant has had a previous massage
therapy establishment permit, an outcall massage therapist permit, a
personal massage therapist permit, or any other massage permit issued
pursuant to this Chapter or any other similar massage permit ordinance
of the City or other jurisdiction, which was denied, suspended or
revoked and if any such denial, suspension or revocation occurred, the
applicant shall provide the name and location of the massage therapy
establishment or business for which the permit was denied, suspended or
revoked, the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and the
reason or reasons for the denial, suspension or revocation; and

      19.   A declaration signed under penalty of. perjury by the
applicant regarding whether the applicant has been a sole proprietor,
general partner, officer, or director of any massage therapy business
that has had a massage therapy establishment permit, an outcall massage
therapist permit, a personal massage therapist permit, or any other
massage permit issued pursuant to this Chapter or any other similar
massage permit ordinance of the City, which was denied, suspended or
revoked and if any such denial, suspension or revocation occurred, the
applicant shall provide the name and location of the massage
establishment or business for which the permit was denied, suspended or
revoked, the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and the
reason or reasons for the denial, suspension or revocation.

   C.   The applicant shall provide the police department with the
current processing fee and with the authorization to conduct the
necessary background investigations to determine the truthfulness and
correctness of the information provided by applicant and whether the
applicant is qualified pursuant to this Chapter to receive the requested
personal massage therapist permit.

   D.   The applicant shall date and sign the application under penalty
of perjury that the information contained in the application is true and
correct.

   E.   The applicant shall pay an application deposit fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) at the time of filing an application pursuant
to this Section to pay for the administrative costs associated with the
Community Development Department's review of the application. If
additional funds are necessary to cover the above costs, the applicant
shall pay such additional costs to the city before further processing of
the application may proceed. Any unused portion of the deposit shall be
refunded to the applicant.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.130   Outcall Massage Therapist Permit Application.

   A.   An application for an outcall massage therapist permit shall be
made on a form provided by the City.

   B.   The following information and the following documents shall be
submitted with all applications for an outcall massage therapist permit:

      1.   The applicant’s legal name, any aliases and date of birth;

      2.   The jurisdictions that the applicant plans to provide outcall
massage therapist services;

      3.   The applicant’s home and business address;

      4.   The name of applicant’s current or proposed business;

      5.   The business telephone number applicant is using or plans to
use as a contact telephone number for clients;

      6.   The previous home addresses of applicant for the ten (10)
years prior to the filing date of the application and the dates of
residency at each such address;

      7.   The names, addresses and descriptions of all current and
former businesses owned, operated or managed by applicant for the ten
(10) years prior to the filing date of the application and the dates
applicant owned, operated or managed such business;

      8.   A recent photograph of the applicant;

      9.   The applicant’s driver’s license number, permit number or
identification number;

      10.   The applicant’s Social Security number and/or State or
Federally issued tax identification number;

      11.   The applicant’s fingerprints taken by the Police Department
or other law enforcement agency within the previous sixty (60) days, and
approved by the Chief of Police;

      12.   Certified copy of the applicant’s diploma or certificate of
graduation from a recognized school of massage and a sealed certified
transcript verifying that the applicant has completed at least five
hundred (500) hours of massage therapy training;

      13.   A certified statement from a physician licensed to practice
medicine in the United States that provides that the applicant has,
within sixty (60) days prior to filing date of the application, been
examined by such physician and it has been determined that the applicant
is free of any communicable disease which is capable of being
transmitted to clients through the type of physical contact that is
normally associated with the massage activities described in this
Chapter;

      14.   A list of all of applicant’s convictions, excluding traffic
violations;

      15.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant that provides that the applicant has not been convicted of any
of the following: (a) pandering as set forth in Penal Code Section
266(i), (b) keeping or residing in a house of ill-fame as set forth in
Penal Code Section 315, (c) keeping a disorderly house as set forth in
Penal Code Section 316, (d) prevailing upon a person to visit a place of
illegal gambling or prostitution as set forth in Penal Code Section 318,
(e) lewd conduct as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(a), or (f)
prostitution activities as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(a) or(b);

      16.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant that provides that the applicant has not been convicted in any
other state of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this
state, would have been punishable as one or more of the offenses set
forth in Penal Code Sections 266(1), 315, 316, 318 or 647(a) or (b);

      17.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant that provides that the applicant is not required to register
as a sex offender as set forth in Penal Code Section 290;

      18.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant that provides that the applicant has not been convicted of any
felony offense involving the sale of any controlled substance specified
in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;

      19.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant that provides that the applicant has not been convicted in any
other state of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this
state, would have been punishable as a felony offense involving the sale
of any controlled substance specified in Health and Safety Code Sections
11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;

      20.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant regarding whether the applicant has had a previous massage
therapy establishment permit, an outcall massage therapist permit, a
personal massage therapist permit, or any other massage permit issued
pursuant to this Chapter or any other similar massage permit ordinance
of the City or other jurisdiction, which was denied, suspended or
revoked and if any such denial, suspension or revocation occurred, the
applicant shall provide the name and location of the massage
establishment or business for which the permit was denied, suspended or
revoked, the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and the
reason or reasons for the denial, suspension or revocation;

      21.   a.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the
applicant regarding whether the applicant has been a sole proprietor,
general partner, officer, or director of any massage therapy business
that has had a massage therapy establishment permit, an outcall massage
therapist permit, a personal massage therapist permit, or any other
massage permit issued under this Chapter or any other similar massage
permit ordinance of the City or other jurisdiction, denied, suspended or
revoked;

         b.   If any such denial, suspension or revocation occurred, the
applicant shall provide the name and location of the massage
establishment for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, the
date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and the reason or reasons
for the denial, suspension or revocation.

   C.   The applicant shall provide the Police Department with the
current processing fee and with the authorization to conduct the
necessary background investigations to determine the truthfulness and
correctness of the information provided by applicant and whether the
applicant is qualified pursuant to this Chapter to receive the requested
outcall massage therapist permit.

   D.   The applicant shall date and sign the application under penalty
of perjury that the information contained in the application is true and
correct.

   E.   The applicant shall pay an application deposit fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) at the time of filing an application pursuant
to this Section to pay for the administrative costs associated with the
Community Development Department's review of the application. If
additional funds are necessary to cover the above costs, the applicant
shall pay such additional costs to the city before further processing of
the application may proceed. Any unused portion of the deposit shall be
refunded to the applicant.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.140   Processing Applications.

   A.   All applications shall be submitted to the City’s Community
Development Department of the City.

   B.   Upon receipt of an application and payment of the application
deposit fee, the City shall immediately stamp the application as
received on that date.

   C.   The filing of concurrent applications by a single individual for
personal and outcall massage therapist permits shall require only one
(1) application deposit fee for both applications.

   D.   The application will not be accepted unless the application
deposit fee and proof of the fingerprinting are submitted with the
respective application.

   E.   Not later than thirty (30) days after the City has received the
application, the City shall determine in writing whether the application
is complete and shall immediately transmit the determination to the
applicant.

   F.   In the event the determination is made that the application is
not complete, then the written determination shall specify those parts
of the application that are incomplete and shall indicate the manner in
which they may be made complete.

   G.   If the written determination is not made within thirty (30) days
after receipt of the application, the application shall be deemed
complete for purposes of this Chapter.

   H.   After the application has been deemed complete, the application
shall be submitted to the Police Department, Planning Division, Building
and Safety Division, Fire Department, and divisions thereof for their
respective review and investigation to determine the accuracy of the
information contained in the application and compliance with all
applicable regulations.

   I.   Each department or division identified in this Section shall
submit their comments regarding their respective review and
investigation of the subject application to the City Manager or his/her
designee.

   J.   The City Manager, or his/her designee, shall grant or deny an
application within sixty (60) business days of receipt of a complete
application.

   K.   Upon the expiration of the sixtieth day after receipt of a
complete application, if the City Manager, or his/her designee, has not
provided written notice of denial or approval of the application to the
applicant, the application shall be deemed tentatively granted and the
applicant shall be excused from the requirement that a duly issued
permit be posted at the premises until such time as a final decision is
made on the subject application pursuant to this Chapter.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.150   Denial of Application and Grounds for Denial.

   A.   An application for a massage therapy permit shall be denied upon
a showing of any of the following:

      1.   The location of the business does not comply with all
applicable zoning laws or the provisions of this Chapter;

      2.   The configuration and/or proposed or actual construction of
the premises, as set out in the sketch or plan submitted with the
application, reveals a violation of an applicable health, fire,
building, safety or zoning regulation or law of the Federal government,
State of California, County of San Bernardino, or ordinance of the City,
including those set forth in this Chapter;

      3.   The applicant or the prospective on-site manager, if other
than the applicant, is not eighteen (18) years of age or older;

      4.   The application contains false information;

      5.   The applicant or the prospective on-site manager, if other
than the applicant, did not receive a diploma or a certificate of
graduation from a recognized school of massage which verifies that he or
she has obtained the requisite number of hours of massage therapy
training;

      6.   The applicant or the prospective on-site manager, if other
than the applicant, officers, was convicted of at least one of the
following offenses: (a) pandering as set forth in Penal Code Section
266(i), (b) keeping or residing in a house of ill-fame as set forth in
Penal Code Section 315, (c) keeping a disorderly house as set forth in
Penal Code Section 316, (d) prevailing upon a person to visit a place of
illegal gambling or prostitution as set forth in Penal Code Section 318,
(e) lewd conduct as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(a) or (f)
prostitution activities as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(a) or
(b);

      7.   The applicant, or the prospective on-site manager, if other
than the applicant, was convicted in another state of an offense which,
if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as
one or more of the offenses set forth in Penal Code Sections 266(f),
315, 316, 318, or 647(a) or (b);

      8.   The applicant, or the prospective on-site manager, if other
than the applicant, is required to register as a sex offender as set
forth in Penal Code Section 290;

      9.   The applicant, or the prospective on-site manager, if other
than the applicant, was convicted of a felony offense involving the sale
of any one of the controlled substance specified in Health and Safety
Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058; or

      10.   The applicant, or the prospective on-site manager if other
than the applicant, was convicted in any other state of any offense
which, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been
punishable as a felony offense involving the sale of a controlled
substance specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055,
11056, 11057 or 11058.

   B.   If the City Manager, or his/her designee denies the application,
he/she shall notify the applicant of the denial in writing and state the
reason(s) for the denial.

   C.   Any subsequent information submitted to cure the grounds of a
denied application shall be treated as a new application.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.160   Exemptions.

A massage therapy permit shall not be required for therapists that are
supporting a local athletic program or event when massage services are
being provided to the participants of the event.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.170   Appeal of Denial.

   A.   An applicant may contest the denial of an application for any
permit, other than a special massage therapy permit or a temporary
massage therapy permit, described in this Chapter by filing an appeal to
the City Council that conforms to the following requirements:

      1.   All appeals shall be in writing. and shall contain the
following information: (a) name(s) of the person filing the appeal
(“appellants”); (b) a brief statement in ordinary and concise language
of the relief sought and the reasons why the permit should be issued;
and (c) the signatures of all parties named as appellants and their
mailing addresses.

      2.   Any appeal filed that fails to provide all of the information
required by this Section shall be deemed incomplete.

      3.   A complete and proper appeal of the denial of a permit
application shall be filed with the City Clerk within ten (10) calendar
days of service of the letter denying the application.

      4.   Any appeal not timely filed shall be rejected.

      5.   A filing fee as established by City Council resolution or any
amendments thereto for an appeal must be paid to the City at or prior to
the time of the filing of the appeal.

      6.   Any appeal of a denial of a permit application filed without
payment of the filing fee shall be deemed incomplete.

      7.   Not later than thirty (30) calendar days from the date the
appeal is filed, the City Clerk or his/her designee shall determine
whether the appeal is complete.

      8.   If the appeal is determined to be incomplete, the City Clerk,
or his/her designee, shall immediately mail to the appellant a notice of
incomplete filing that shall provide a written explanation of each
reason why the appeal has been determined to be incomplete.

      9.   If service of the notice of incomplete filing is completed
within ten (10) calendar days from the date the appeal is filed, the ten
(10) calendar days time period within which to file a completed appeal
shall not be extended.

   B.   Failure to timely and properly file an appeal shall constitute a
waiver of all rights to an appeal hearing.

   C.   As soon as practicable, after receiving the written appeal, the
City Clerk shall schedule a public hearing before the City Council at
the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting for which there is
sufficient time to have the matter properly noticed.

   D.   As soon as practicable, after scheduling the appeals hearing,
the City Clerk shall prepare a notice of appeals hearing (“hearing
notice”) which shall be in substantially the same form as follows:

      You are hereby notified that a hearing will be held before the
City Council at _____ on the _____day of __________, _____, at the hour
of ______, to hear your appeal of the City Manager’s denial of your
massage permit application. You may be present at the hearing. You may
be, but need not be, represented by an attorney. You may present any
relevant evidence at the hearing.

   E.   In addition to any other public hearing notice requirements as
may be required by any applicable law, the City Clerk, or his/her
designee, shall cause a copy of the hearing notice to be provided to the
appellant at least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing date either
by causing a copy of the notice to be delivered to the appellant
personally or by causing a copy of the notice to be delivered by
certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, and addressed
to the appellant at the address shown on the appeal.

   F.   Proof of service of the hearing notice shall be certified at the
time of service by a written declaration under penalty of perjury
executed by the persons effecting service, declaring the date and manner
in which service was made.

   G.   The declaration pertaining to the proof of service shall be
affixed to a copy of the hearing notice.

   H.   The City Clerk, or his/her designee, shall cause a copy of the
hearing notice to be provided to the City Manager.

   I.   The City Manager, or his/her designee, shall prepare an appeal
hearing packet for the City Council to review prior to the hearing.

   J.   The appeal hearing packet shall include a copy of the City
Manager’s findings and decision on the application for the permit, a
staff report, and any other relevant evidence.

   K.   The City Council shall review all relevant evidence and hear all
relevant oral testimony submitted by, for and against the appellant and
the appellant shall be provided with a reasonable opportunity to be
heard on the matter at the public hearing.

   L.   The City Council shall consider at the appeal hearing only those
matters or issues which were specifically raised by the appellant in his
or her written appeal and which are relevant to the issues of the
hearing.

   M.   The City Council has the authority to determine the relevance of
any evidence to the hearing.

   N.   The City Council has the authority to exclude unduly repetitious
and cumulative evidence, regardless of its relevancy.

   O.   The City Council shall not have the authority to waive any
requirements of the municipal code and/or any applicable statutes,
rules, codes or regulations.

   P.   If the appellant fails to attend the scheduled appeal hearing,
the appeal hearing shall proceed without the appellant and the appellant
shall be deemed to have waived his or her rights to be orally heard at
the hearing.

   Q.   The City Council may take the following actions:

      1.   Reject the City Manager’s findings and determinations based
upon the conclusion that the City Manager misapplied the provisions of
this Chapter and reverse the City Manager’s decision;

      2.   Modify the City Manager’s findings and determinations to
conform with the application of the provisions of this Chapter and
reverse or affirm the City Manager’s decision;

      3.   Accept the City Manager’s findings and determinations on the
grounds that the City Manager properly applied the provisions of this
Chapter to the appellant and application and affirm the City Manager’s
decision; or

      4.   Remand the matter to the City Manager with instructions to
reconsider the application in light of new information presented to the
City Council prior to or at the public hearing.

   R.   The City Council shall prepare and serve a written notice of
decision upon the appellant(s) and the City Manager within thirty (30)
calendar days from the date the public hearing is deemed closed.

   S.   The notice of decision shall state whether the City Manager’s
decision has been either upheld in full or in part or rescinded in full
or in part.

   T.   The notice of decision shall also contain a brief summary of the
evidence considered, findings of fact, and the effective date of the
decision.

   U.   The City Clerk shall cause a copy of the notice of decision to
be provided to the appellant(s) by causing a copy of the notice to be
delivered to the appellant(s) personally or by causing a copy of the
notice to be delivered to the appellant(s) by certified mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, and addressed to all the addresses
shown on the application.

   V.   Proof of service of the notice of decision shall be certified at
the time of service by a written declaration under penalty of perjury
executed by the person effecting service, declaring the date and manner
in which service was made.

   W.   The declaration regarding the notice of decision shall be
affixed to a copy of the notice of decision.

   X.   The decision of the City Council shall be final.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.180   Current Information.

During the effective duration of the permit, the permittee shall
promptly update, correct or supplement the information contained in his
or her application on file with the City when necessary to keep the
information contained therein current and accurate.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.190   Renewal of Permit.

   A.   All permits shall expire one (1) year from the date they are
issued.

   B.   Applications for renewal of a permit shall be made thirty (30)
days prior to the expiration date of the permit in accordance with the
applicable application procedures set forth in this Chapter.

   C.   The applicant shall pay a renewal application deposit fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) at the time of filing a renewal application in
addition to any necessary background investigation costs of the police
department. Multiple permits held by a single individual can be renewed
for a single application deposit fee. If additional funds are necessary
to cover the above costs, the applicant shall pay such additional costs
to the Community Development Department before further processing of the
renewal application may proceed. Any unused portion of the deposit shall
be refunded to the applicant.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.200   Massage Therapy Establishments; Inspections.

Representatives of the City including, but not limited to
representatives of the Police Department, Community Development
Department, building and safety division, fire department, health
department and divisions thereof, may inspect the premises of a massage
therapy establishment for the purposes of insuring compliance with the
law at any time such establishment is occupied or open for business
pursuant to the inspection provisions set forth in the Municipal Code,
uniform codes adopted by the City, and applicable State and local laws
and regulations.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.210   Massage Therapy Establishments; Exterior Lighting.

All off-street parking locations entrances and exits provided for or
belonging to the massage therapy establishment shall be illuminated from
dusk to closing hours with a lighting system that provides an average
maintained horizontal illumination of one (1) foot candle of light on
the parking surface and walkways.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.220   Massage Therapy Establishments; Exterior Signage.

   A.   A recognizable and readable sign that complies with all sign
regulations of the City shall be posted at the main entrance of the
massage therapy establishment identifying the name of the massage
therapy establishment.

   B.   A recognizable and readable sign that complies with all sign
regulations of the City shall be posted at the main entrance of the
massage therapy establishment identifying the hours of operation of the
massage therapy establishment.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.230   Massage Therapy Establishments; Exterior Views.

All building openings, entries, windows, etc., of a massage
establishment shall be located, covered or screened in such a manner as
to prevent an unobstructed view from the exterior of the building into
dressing rooms, massage therapy rooms, restrooms, and other areas where
patrons of the business may not be fully clothed.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.240   Massage Therapy Establishments; Posting Requirements.

   A.   The massage therapy establishment permit shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises within the reception area of the
massage establishment.

   B.   A copy of the personal massage therapy permit for each personal
massage therapist shall be kept on file on the premises of the massage
establishment.

   C.   A copy of each diploma or certificate of graduation for each
personal massage therapist shall be kept on file on the premises of the
massage establishment.

   D.   A recent photograph of each personal massage therapist shall be
kept on file on the premises of the massage establishment.

   E.   A list of massage therapy services available at the massage
establishment, a description of services in readily understandable
language, and the cost of such services shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises within the reception area of the massage
establishment.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.250   Massage Therapy Establishments; Reception Area.

At least one (1) artificial light providing a lighting intensity of not
less than thirty (30) foot candle power at floor level shall be
installed in the reception area.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.260   Massage Therapy Establishments; Massage Therapy Rooms.

   A.   At least one (1) artificial light providing a lighting intensity
of not less than twenty (20) foot candle power at floor level shall be
installed in each massage therapy room.

   B.   There shall be no locks on any massage therapy room or any other
device which impedes or obstructs access to the massage therapy room.

   C.   There shall be walls installed between each massage therapy room
and such walls shall contain no openings other than doors between
adjacent rooms.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.270   Massage Therapy Establishments; Client Registration.

   A.   All massage therapy establishment permittees shall maintain a
client registration file that shall include the following information:

      1.   First, middle and last name of client;

      2.   Signature of client;

      3.   Complete address of client;

      4.   Date and time of visit; and

      5.   First, middle and last name of personal massage therapist who
administered massage services.

   B.   Every client shall provide the information set forth above and
sign his or her name on the client registration form provided by the
permittee before any massage services may be provided.

   C.   All client registration files shall be made available for
inspection by the Police Department or other law enforcement agency upon
written request of the Chief of Police within three (3) working days of
receiving such request.

   D.   The information contained in client registration files shall be
maintained by permittee for a period of three (3) calendar years of the
last date the respective information was entered into the file.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.280   Massage Therapy Establishments; Dress and Identification.

   A.   All employees shall wear non-transparent outer garments covering
their specified anatomical areas.

   B.   All employees shall wear badges that identify their first and/or
last names and their employment position with the massage establishment.

   C.   All massage establishment employees shall possess while on the
premises of a massage establishment a valid identification with a
photograph of himself/herself at all times while present on the premises
of the massage establishment during the hours of operation of the
establishment.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.290   Massage Therapy Establishments; Hours of Operation.

   A.   Massage therapy establishments are prohibited from operating
between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 7:30 a.m.

   B.   Permittees shall be prohibited from permitting clients to remain
on the premises of the massage establishment after closing hours.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.300   Massage Therapy Establishments; Showers, Baths and Toilets.

   A.   Only one (1) client shall be permitted in a room containing a
shower stall, bath stall or toilet facility at any one time unless
otherwise permitted by any applicable local, State, or Federal law or
regulation or accompanied by a massage therapist for massage therapy
purposes.

   B.   Each room containing a shower, bath and/or toilet shall have a
door that is self closing and locking.

   C.   An artificial light providing a lighting intensity of not less
than thirty (30) foot candle power at floor level shall be installed in
any room containing a shower, bath and/or toilet.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.310   Massage Therapy Establishments; Sanitary Conditions.

   A.   The premises of the massage therapy establishment shall have
adequate equipment for disinfecting and/or sanitizing nondisposable
instruments and materials used in administering massages.

   B.   All nondisposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
and/or sanitized after each use on each client.

   C.   All walls, ceilings, floors, showers, bathtubs, water basins,
toilets and all other facilities must be maintained in good repair and
in a clean and sanitary condition.

   D.   All showers, bathtubs, water basins and toilets shall be
thoroughly cleaned at least once each day the massage therapy
establishment is in operation.

   E.   Water basins with hot and cold running water from a potable
source and soap dispensers shall be available to clients.

   F.   A trash receptacle shall be provided in each massage therapy
room and any room containing a shower, bathtub, water basin and/or
toilet.

   G.   Bathtubs shall be thoroughly cleaned after each use.

   H.   All clients shall be provided clean and sanitary towels, sheets
and linens.

   I.   Towels, sheets and linens shall be provided in sufficient
quantity and shall not be used by more than one (1) person unless such
towels, sheets and linens have been re-laundered.

   J.   Separate closed cabinets or containers shall be provided for the
storage of clean and soiled towels, sheets and linens, and such cabinets
or containers shall be plainly marked “clean linen” and “soiled linen.”

   K.   Massage table cover pads that come into contact with the body of
a client shall be clean.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.320   Massage Therapy Establishments; Loudspeakers and Sound
Equipment.

Loudspeakers or sound equipment shall not be used by a massage therapy
establishment for amplification of sound to a level discernible by the
public beyond the walls of the building or leaseable space in which the
use is conducted.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.330   Outcall Massage Therapy; Client Registration.

   A.   All outcall massage therapists shall maintain a client
registration book or appointment book that shall include the following
information:

      1.   First, middle and last name of client;

      2.   Date and time of visit;

      3.   Address of location of the subject massage therapy services;

      4.   First, middle and last name of personal massage therapist who
administered massage service.

   B.   All client registration or appointment books shall be made
available for inspection by the Police Department or other law
enforcement agency upon written request of the Chief of Police within
three (3) working days of receiving such request.

   C.   A client registration or appointment books shall be maintained
by permittee for each calendar year and each client registration or
appointment book shall be maintained by permittee for a period of three
(3) calendar years.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.340   Outcall Massage Service; Dress and Identification.

   A.   All outcall massage therapists shall wear non-transparent outer
garments covering their specified anatomical areas while performing any
massage services authorized by their respective permit.

   B.   All outcall massage therapists shall wear badges that identify
their first and/or last names.

   C.   All outcall massage therapists shall possess evidence of their
permits and valid identification on their person at all times during the
course of providing any services authorized by the subject permit.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.350   Outcall Massage Therapists; Hours of Services.

   A.   Outcall massage therapists are prohibited from providing massage
services between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.

   B.   Outcall massage therapists shall notify the manager of any
lodging establishment at which services have been requested by a
registered guest or guest of the registered guest of such lodging
establishment prior to providing massage services to the registered
guest or guest of the registered guest.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.360   Prohibited Activities.

   A.   Any and all employees, including any owner, operator or manager,
of a massage therapy establishment and all outcall massage therapists
and their clients are prohibited from exposing their specified
anatomical areas (including the buttocks of the employee, owner,
operator or manager) to each other during the course of the performance
or administration of any service pursuant to a validly issued massage
therapy permit.

   B.   Any and all employees, including any owner, operator or manager,
of a massage therapy establishment and all outcall massage therapists
and their clients are prohibited from touching either their own or one
another’s specified anatomical areas during the course of the
performance or administration of any service pursuant to a validly
issued massage therapy permit.

   C.   Any and all employees, including any owner, operator or manager,
of a massage therapy establishment and all outcall massage therapists
are prohibited from being in a state of full nudity or semi-nudity
(which includes exposure of the buttocks of any employee, owner,
operator or manager) during the course of the performance or
administration of any service pursuant to a validly issued massage
therapy permit.

   D.   Any and all employees, including any owner, operator or manager,
of a massage therapy establishment and all outcall massage therapists
and their clients are prohibited from engaging in any specified sexual
activities during the course of the performance or administration of any
service pursuant to a validly issued massage therapy permit.

   E.   Any and all employees, including any owner, operator or manager,
of a massage therapy establishment and all outcall massage therapists
shall be prohibited from performing or administering any massage
services to a minor unless written permission is provided by the minor’s
parent or legal guardian.

   F.   Any and all employees, including any owner, operator or manager,
of a massage therapy establishment and outcall massage therapists shall
be prohibited from performing or administering any massage services and
charging any amount that is not posted on the list of services and
charges.

   G.   No permittee shall employ any person under eighteen (18) years
of age.

   H.   No permittee shall operate, maintain, run or manage any massage
therapy establishment or outcall massage therapy services under any
business name not specified in the permit.

   I.   No permittee shall provide alcoholic beverages to clients either
on the premises of a massage therapy establishment or during the course
of providing any services as an outcall massage therapist.

   J.   No permittee shall be permitted to transfer or assign any permit
issued pursuant to this Chapter to another person, entity, or to another
location which shall include another legal parcel or another address.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.370   Transfer of Ownership.

All transfers of ownership of any business operating pursuant to a
permit validly issued pursuant to this Chapter shall result in the
automatic termination of the permit.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.380   Relocation.

Relocation of any business operating pursuant to this Chapter shall
result in the automatic termination of the subject permit.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.390   Change of On-site Manager.

A change of the on-site manager of a massage establishment without
submitting a new massage establishment permit application shall result
in the automatic termination of the subject permit.

[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.400   Reference Applies to Amendments.

Whenever a reference is made to any part of the Municipal Code or to any
ordinance of the City, reference applies to all amendments and additions
now or hereafter made.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.410   Computation of Time.

   A.   The time in which any act provided by this Chapter is to be done
is computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless
the last day is a holiday that is also excluded.

   B.   If the last day for the performance of any act set forth in this
Chapter is a holiday, then the time in which to perform the act is
extended to and including the next day which is not a holiday.

   C.   If the last day for the performance of any act provided by this
Chapter is Saturday or Sunday, then the time in which to perform the act
is extended to and including the next Monday.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.420   Nonconforming Uses and Permits.

   A.   All permittees legally permitted to engage in massage therapy
business activities on the effective date of this Chapter, which are in
noncompliance as a result of an amendment to this Chapter shall be
deemed legal nonconforming and will be allowed to continue operation
provided they are in compliance with all limitations and requirements of
their original permit except as noted below.

   B.   Any expansion of massage services beyond those specified in the
original approval shall require a newly issued permit pursuant to this
Chapter.

   C.   All legal nonconforming individual permittees shall come into
compliance with all licensing and operational criteria identified in
this Chapter by the effective date of this Chapter.

   D.   All legal nonconforming establishment applicants and the
prospective on-site manager(s), if other than the applicant, shall come
into compliance with all licensing and operational criteria identified
in this Chapter by the effective date of this Chapter.

   E.   All legal nonconforming establishments shall come into
compliance with all licensing and operational criteria identified in
this Chapter by the effective date of this Chapter.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.430   Suspension and Revocation.

   A.   A massage permit validly issued pursuant to this Chapter shall
be subject to suspension or revocation for the following reasons:

      1.   The permittee, any of its employees, or massage therapists
working for permittee as independent contractors engages in any of the
prohibited activities described in Section 5.60.360;

      2.   The permittee, any of its employees, or massage therapists
working for permittee as independent contractors are convicted of any of
the following: (a) pandering as set forth in Penal Code Section 266(i),
(b) keeping or residing in a house of ill-fame as set forth in Penal
Code Section 315, (c) keeping a disorderly house as set forth in Penal
Code Section 316, (d) prevailing upon a person to visit a place of
illegal gambling or prostitution as set forth in Penal Code Section 318,
(e) lewd conduct as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(a), or (f)
prostitution activities as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(a) or
(b);

      3.   The permittee, any of its employees, or massage therapists
working for permittee as independent contractors are convicted in any
other state of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this
state, would have been punishable as one or more of the offenses set
forth in Penal Code Sections 266(i), 315, 316, 318 or 647(a) or (b);

      4.   The permittee, any of its employees, or massage therapists
working for permittee as independent contractors are required to
register as a sex offender as set forth in Penal Code Section 290;

      5.   The permittee, any of its employees, or massage therapists
working for permittee as independent contractors are convicted of any
felony offense involving the sale of any controlled substance specified
in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;

      6.   The permittee, any of its employees, or massage therapists
working for permittee as independent contractors are convicted in any
other state of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this
state, would have been punishable as a felony offense involving the sale
of any controlled substance specified in Health and Safety Code Sections
11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;

      7.   The permittee fails to provide Information pursuant to
Section 5.60.150;

      8.   A certified statement from the real property owner is
received by the City indicating that the permittee is not authorized to
operate, run or manage a massage establishment on the subject premises;

      9.   The actual physical configuration of the premises does not
conform with the sketch or diagram submitted with the approved
application;

      10.   It is discovered by the City Manager that information
contained in the approved application was false;

      11.   The permittee has knowledge that a client has contracted a
communicable disease such as tuberculosis or a sexually transmitted
disease from the permittee, any of permittee's employees, or any massage
therapists working for permittee as an independent contractor through
physical contact with the permittee or permittee’s employees during the
course of providing massage therapy services pursuant to a massage
therapy permit;

      12.   The permittee, any of permittee’s employees or any massage
therapists working for permittee as an independent contractor refuse to
permit representatives of the City, including, but not limited to police
department, community development/planning department, building and
safety division, fire department, health department and divisions
thereof, to inspect the premises of a massage establishment pursuant to
Section 5.60.200;

      13.   The permittee fails to comply with the following provisions:

         a.   The exterior lighting requirements set forth in Section
5.60.180,

         b.   The exterior signage requirements set forth in Section
5.60.190,

         c.   The exterior view requirements set forth in Section
5.60.200,

         d.   The posting requirements set forth in Section 5.60.210,

         e.   The reception area requirements set forth in Section
5.60.220,

         f.   The massage therapy room requirements set forth in Section
5.60.230,

         g.   The client registration requirements set forth in Sections
5.60.270 and 5.60.330,

         h.   The dress and identification requirements set forth in
Sections 5.60.280 and 5.60.340,

         i.   The hours of operation and services requirements set forth
in Sections 5.60.290 and 5.60.350, respectively,

         j.   The shower, bath and toilet requirements set forth in
Section 5.60.300,

         k.   The sanitary conditions requirements set forth in Section
5.60.310, and/or

         I.   The loudspeaker or sound equipment requirements set forth
in Section 5.60.320.

   B.   Revocation or suspension of any permit validly issued pursuant
to this Chapter shall be accomplished pursuant to the procedures set
forth in this Code, applicable ordinance(s) of the City, and State law.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.440   Enforcement; Separate Offense for Each Day.

Any person that violates any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty
of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which
any such person commits, continues, permits, or causes a violation
thereof, and shall be punished accordingly.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.450   Public Nuisance.

Any violation of Sections 5.60.030A., B., or C., 5.60.050A., 5.60.180,
5.60.210, 5.60.220, 5.60.230, 5.60.240, 5.60.250, 5.60.260, 5.60.270,
5.60.280, 5.60.290, 5.60.300, 5.60.310, 5.60.320, 5.60.330, 5.60.340,
5.60.350, 5.60.360 of this Chapter by any person responsible for
committing, causing or maintaining such violation shall constitute a
public nuisance which shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 8.25
of the Municipal Code.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.460   Criminal Penalties.

   A.   Any person who violates, causes, maintains or permits another
person to violate any provision of this Chapter commits an infraction.
Any person convicted of an infraction shall be subject to a fine to the
maximum amount permitted by state law. Any person twice convicted of an
infraction for repeat violations of the same provision within a one (1)
year period, may be charged with a misdemeanor upon being issued a
citation for the repeated violation of the same provision. Any person
convicted of a misdemeanor shall be subject to punishment to the maximum
permitted by State law.

   B.   Pursuant to Government Code Section 36900(a), the City attorney
may prosecute these violations in the name of the people of the State of
California.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.470   Civil Fines.

   A.   Any person convicted of an infraction, for each separate
violation of Sections 5.60.030A., B., or C., 5.60.050A., 5.60.180,
5.60.210, 5.60.220, 5.60.230, 5.60.240, 5.60.250, 5.60.260, 5.60.270,
5.60.280, 5.60.290, 5.60.300, 5.60.310, 5.60.320, 5.60.330, 5.60.340,
5.60.350, 5.60.360 of this Chapter, shall be subject to: (1) a fine in
an amount not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a first
conviction of an offense; (2) a fine in an amount not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for a second conviction of the same offense
within a twelve (12) month period from the date of the first offense;
and (3) a fine in an amount not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for a third conviction of the same offense within a twelve
(12) month period from the date of the first offense.

   B.   The fine for a fourth and subsequent convictions of the same
offense within a twelve (12) month period of the date from the first
offense shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.480   Civil Injunction.

The violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be and is declared
to be contrary to the public interest and shall, at the discretion of
the City, create a cause of action for injunctive relief.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.490   Administrative Remedies.

   A.   In addition to the civil remedies and criminal penalties set
forth above, any person that responsible for committing, causing or
maintaining any violation of this Chapter may be subject to
administrative remedies, as set forth by City ordinance.

   B.   Nothing in this Section shall preclude the City from also
issuing an infraction or misdemeanor citation upon the occurrence of the
same subject offense on a separate day.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.500   Additional Remedies.

   A.   Any violation of Sections 5.60.030A., B., or C., 5.60.050A.,
5.60.180, 5.60.210, 5.60.220, 5.60.230, 5.60.240, 5.60.250, 5.60.260,
5.60.270, 5.60.280, 5.60.290, 5.60.300, 5.60.310, 5.60.320, 5.60.330,
5.60.340, 5.60.350, 5.60.360 of this Chapter by the holder of any City
permit and/or City license validly issued pursuant to this or any other
Chapter of the Municipal Code shall constitute grounds for modification,
suspension and/or revocation of said permit and/or license pursuant to
the provisions set forth in this Code.

   B.   Nothing in this Chapter shall preclude the City from pursuing
other remedies provided by City ordinance, uniform codes adopted by the
City, or by State or Federal law including, but not limited to, denial
or revocation of certificates of occupancy, issuance of stop work orders
and injunctive relief.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.510   Regulations Nonexclusive.

The provisions of this Chapter regulating massage establishments are not
intended to be exclusive, and compliance therewith shall not excuse
noncompliance with any other regulation(s) pertaining to the operation
of businesses as adopted by the City.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.60.520   Massage Establishments that Only Use Massage Therapists
Certified Under State Law.

Consistent with state law and subject to the exceptions listed below, if
the massage establishment only uses massage therapists certified
pursuant to the procedures outlined in California Business and
Professions Code §§ 4600 et seq., then the massage establishment shall
be exempt from the requirements of this Chapter. However, such massage
establishments are subject to the following requirements:

   A.   Massage establishments must file the certificates for all state
certified massage therapists with the City.

   B.   Massage establishments are required to obtain and pay for a
business license, the City is allowed to investigate the information
provided, and the City is allowed to deny or restrict a business license
if the applicant has provided materially false information.

   C.   Massage establishments are required to still comply with
Adelanto Municipal Code Sections 5.60.280 and 5.60.310.

   D.   The City retains the right to conduct reasonable inspections,
during regular business hours, to ensure compliance with state and local
law or other applicable fire and health and safety requirements.

   E.   The massage establishment is required to notify the City of any
intention to rename, change management, or convey the business to
another person or entity.

   F.   All applicable zoning and land use regulations are applicable to
all massage establishments.

If and when Business and Professions Code §§ 4600 et seq. and the rules
therein are repealed, this Section 5.60.520 is correspondingly also
repealed and Chapter 5.60 of the Adelanto Municipal Code shall be
applicable to all massage establishments within the City.

[Ord. No. 493, 2/24/10.]

Chapter 5.64
ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES

Sections:

   5.64.010   Findings; Definitions

   5.64.020   Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit Required

   5.64.030   Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit Required

   5.64.040   Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit

   5.64.050   Investigation and Action on Application

   5.64.060   Suspension or Revocation of Adult-Oriented Business
Regulatory and Performer Permits

   5.64.070   Appeal or Denial of Permit Suspension or Revocation

   5.64.080   Register and Permit Number of Employees

   5.64.090   Display of Permit and Identification Cards

   5.64.100   Employment of Minors and Persons Without Permits
Prohibited

   5.64.110   Time Limit for Filing Application for Permit

5.64.010   Findings; Definitions.

   A.   The Findings set forth in Chapter 17.85 of this Code, and in
Section 1 of Ordinance No; 332, which is adopted by reference therein,
are adopted herein in full.

   B.   The Definitions set forth in Chapter 17.85 of this Code, and in
Subsection 2 of Article 1 of Section 2 of Ordinance No. 332, which is
adopted by reference in Chapter 17.85, are adopted herein in full.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.64.020   Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit Required.

It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on,
or to permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any
premises in the City, the operation of an adult-oriented business unless
the person first obtains and continues to maintain in full force and
effect an Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit from the City as
herein required. [Ord. No. 332, Subsection 3(a), adopted 5/27/97.]

The provisions of this Chapter regulating adult-oriented businesses are
not intended to be exclusive and compliance therewith shall not excuse
noncompliance with any other regulations pertaining to the operation of
businesses as adopted by the City Council of the City. [Ord. No. 332,
Subsection 4 of Article 4, adopted 5/27/97.]

In addition to the Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit, a City
business license shall also be maintained in force and effect, pursuant
to Chapter 5.40 herein, for the operation of the adult-oriented
business.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.64.030   Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit Required.

It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or participate in any
live performance depicting specified anatomical areas or involving
specified sexual activities in an adult-oriented business unless the
person first obtains and continues in full force and effect an
Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit from the City as herein
required.

[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 3(b), adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]

5.64.040   Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit.

   A.   No person shall engage in or participate in any live performance
depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified sexual
activities in an adult-oriented business, without a valid Adult-Oriented
Business Performer Permit issued by the City. All persons who have been
issued an Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit shall promptly
supplement the information provided as part of the application for the
Permit required by Section 3, Article 2, Subsection 1 of Ordinance No.
332, and Chapter 17.85 of this Code, with the names of all performers
required to obtain an Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit, within
thirty (30) days of any change in the information originally submitted.
Failure to submit such changes shall be grounds for suspension of the
Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit.

   B.   The Chief of Police shall grant, deny and renew Adult Business
Employee Permits.

   C.   The application for a permit shall be made on a form provided by
the Chief of Police. An original and two (2) copies of the completed and
sworn permit application shall be filed with the Chief of Police.

   D.   The completed application shall contain the following
information and be accompanied by the following documents:

      1.   The applicant’s legal name and any other names (including
“stage names” and aliases) used by the applicant;

      2.   Age, date and place of birth;

      3.   Height, weight, hair and eye color;

      4.   Present residence address and telephone number;

      5.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of:

         a.   Any of the offenses set forth in Penal Code Sections 315,
316, 266a, 266b, 266c, 266e, 266g, 266h, 647(a), 647(b) and 647(D), as
those sections now exist or may hereafter be amended or renumbered.

         b.   The equivalent of the aforesaid offenses outside the State
of California;

      6.   Whether such person is or has ever been licensed or
registered as a prostitute, or otherwise authorized by the laws of any
other jurisdiction to engage in prostitution in such other jurisdiction.
If any person mentioned in this Subsection has ever been licensed or
registered as a prostitute, or otherwise authorized by the laws of any
other state to engage in prostitution, as statement shall be submitted
giving the place of such registration, licensing or legal authorization,
and the inclusive dates during which such person was so licensed,
registered, or authorized to engage in prostitution;

      7.   State driver’s license or identification number;

      8.   Satisfactory written proof that the applicant is at least
eighteen (18) years of age;

      9.   The applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department, and a color photograph clearly showing the applicant’s face.
Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant;

      10.   If the application is made for the purpose of renewing a
license, the applicant shall attach a copy of the license to be renewed.

   E.   The completed application shall be accompanied by a
non-refundable application fee. The amount of the fee shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.

   F.   Upon receipt of an application and payment of the application
fee, the Chief of Police shall immediately stamp the application as
received and promptly investigate the application.

   G.   If the Chief of Police determines that the applicant has
completed the application improperly, the Chief of Police shall promptly
notify the applicant of such fact and grant the applicant an extension
of time of not more than ten (10) days to complete the application
properly. In addition, the applicant may request an extension, not to
exceed ten (10) days, of the time for the Chief of Police to act on the
application. The time period for granting or denying a permit shall be
stayed during the period in which the applicant is granted an extension
of time.

[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 6 of Article 2, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462,
Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.64.050   Investigation and Action on Application.

   A.   Within thirty (30) days after receipt of the properly completed
application, the Chief of Police shall grant or deny the application and
so notify the applicant as follows:

      1.   The Chief of Police shall write or stamp “Granted” or
“Denied” on the application and date and sign such notation.

      2.   If the application is denied, the Chief of Police shall
attach to the application a statement of the reasons for denial.

      3.   If the application is granted, the Chief of Police shall
attach to the application an Adult-Oriented Business Employee Permit.

      4.   The application as granted or denied and the permit, if any,
shall be placed in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid,
addressed to the applicant at the residence address stated in the
application.

   B.   The Chief of Police shall grant the application and issue the
permit unless the application is denied for one or more of the reasons
set forth in Subsection D. of this Section.

   C.   If the Chief of Police grants the application or if the Chief of
Police neither grants nor denies the application within thirty (30) days
after it is stamped as received (except as provided in Subsection G. of
Section 5.64.040), the applicant may begin performing in the capacity
for which the license was sought.

   D.   The Chief of Police shall deny the application for any of the
following reasons:

      1.   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a permit
or in any report or document required to be filed with the application;

      2.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;

      3.   The Adult-Oriented Business Employee Permit is to be used for
performing in a business prohibited by State or City law;

      4.   The applicant has been registered in any state as a
prostitute;

      5.   The applicant has been convicted of any of the offenses
enumerated in Section 5.64.040D.5.a. or convicted of an offense outside
the State of California that would have constituted any of the described
offenses if committed within the State of California. A permit may be
issued to any person convicted of the described crimes if the conviction
occurred more than five (5) years prior to the date of the application.

   E.   Each Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit shall expire one
(1) year from the date of issuance and may be renewed only by filing
with the Chief of Police a written request for renewal, accompanied by
the application fee and a copy of the permit to be renewed. The request
for renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days before the
expiration date of the permit. When made less than thirty (30) days
before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be
stayed. Applications for renewal shall be acted on as provided herein
for application for permits.

[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 7 of Article 2, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462,
Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.64.060   Suspension or Revocation of Adult-Oriented Business
Regulatory and Performer Permits.

   A.   An Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit or Adult-Oriented
Business Employee Permit may be suspended or revoked in accordance with
the procedures and standards of this Section.

   B.   In determining that grounds for permit revocation exist, the
Chief of Police shall furnish written notice of the proposed suspension
or revocation to the permittee. Such notices shall set forth the time
and place of a hearing, and the ground or grounds upon which the hearing
is based, the pertinent Code sections, and a brief statement of the
factual maters in support thereof. The notice shall be mailed, postage
prepaid, addressed to the last known address of the permittee or shall
be delivered to the permittee personally, at least ten (10) days prior
to the hearing date. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with
procedures established by the Chief of Police, but at a minimum shall
include the following:

      1.   All parties involved shall have a right to offer testimonial,
documentary, and tangible evidence bearing on the issues; may be
represented by counsel; and shall have the right to confront and
cross-examine witnesses. Any relevant evidence may be admitted that is
the sort of evidence upon which reasonable persons are accustomed to
rely in the conduct of serious affairs. Any hearing under this Section
may be continued for a reasonable time for the convenience of a party or
a witness. The Chief of Police’s decision may be appealed in accordance
with Section 5.64.080.

   C.   A permittee may be subject to suspension or revocation of his
permit, or be subject to other appropriate disciplinary action, for any
of the following causes arising from the acts or omissions of the
permittee, or an employee, agent, partner, director, stockholder or
manager of an adult-oriented business:

      1.   The permittee has knowingly made any false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of material fact in the application for a permit,
or in any report or record required to be filed with the City;

      2.   The permittee, employee, agent, partner, director,
stockholder, or manager of an adult-oriented business has knowingly
allowed or permitted, and has failed to make a reasonable effort to
prevent the occurrence of any of the following on the premises of the
adult-oriented business, or in the case of an adult-oriented business
performer, the permittee has engaged in one of the activities described
below while on the premises of an adult-oriented business:

         a.   Any act of unlawful sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral
copulation or masturbation;

         b.   Use of the establishment as a place where unlawful
solicitation for sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation or
masturbation openly occur;

         c.   Any conduct constituting a criminal offense which requires
registration under Penal Code Section 290;

         d.   The occurrence of acts of lewdness, assignation, or
prostitution, including any conduct constituting violations of Penal
Code Sections 315, 316 or 318 or Subdivision b of Section 647;

         e.   Any act constituting a violation of provisions in the
Penal Code relating to obscene matter or distribution of harmful matter
to minors, including but not limited to Sections 311 through 313.4; or

         f.   Any conduct prohibited by this Chapter.

      3.   Failure to abide by any disciplinary action previously
imposed by an appropriate City official.

   C.   After holding the hearing in accordance with the provisions of
this Section, if the Chief of Police finds and determines that there are
grounds for disciplinary action, based upon the severity of the
violation, the Chief of Police shall impose one (1) of the following:

      1.   A warning;

      2.   Suspension of the permit for a specified period not to exceed
six (6) months; or

      3.   Revocation of the permit.

[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 8 of Article 2, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462,
Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.64.070   Appeal or Denial of Permit Suspension or Revocation.

After denial of an application for an Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory
Permit or an Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit, or after denial
of renewal of a permit, or suspension or revocation of a permit, the
application or person to whom the permit was granted may seek review of
such administrative action by the City Council in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter. If the denial, suspension or revocation is
affirmed on review, the applicant or permittee may seek prompt judicial
review of such administrative action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1094.5 or 1094.8. The City shall make all reasonable efforts to
expedite judicial review, if sought by permittee.

[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 9 of Article 2, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462,
Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.64.080   Register and Permit Number of Employees.

Every permittee of an adult-oriented business which provides live
entertainment depicting specified anatomical areas or involving
specified sexual activities must maintain a register of all persons so
performing on the premises and their permit numbers. Such register shall
be available for inspection during regular business hours by any police
officer or health officer of the City.

[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 2 of Article 3, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462,
Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.64.090   Display of Permit and Identification Cards.

   A.   Every adult-oriented business shall display at all times during
business hours the permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter for such adult-oriented business in a conspicuous place so that
the same may be readily seen by all persons entering the adult-oriented
business.

   B.   The Chief of Police shall provide each adult-oriented business
performer required to have a permit pursuant to this Chapter, with an
identification card containing the name, address, photograph and permit
number of such performer.

   C.   An adult-oriented business performer shall have such card
available for inspection at all times during which such person is on the
premises of the adult-oriented business.

[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 3 of Article 3, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462,
Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.64.100   Employment of Minors and Persons Without Permits Prohibited.

   A.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee, operator or other person
in charge of any adult-oriented business to employ, or provide any
service for which it requires such permit, to any person who is not at
least eighteen (18) years of age.

   B.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee, operator or other person
in charge of any adult-oriented business to permit to enter, or remain
within the adult-oriented business, any person who is not at least
eighteen (18) years of age.

[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 3 of Article 3, adopted 5/27/97.]

   C.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, manager, or
permittee in charge of or in control of an adult-oriented business which
provides live entertainment depicting specified anatomical areas or
involving specified sexual activities to allow any person to perform
such entertainment who is not in possession of a valid, unrevoked
Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit.

[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 3 of Article 4, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462,
Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.64.110   Time Limit for Filing Application for Permit.

All persons who possess an outstanding business license heretofore
issued for the operation of an adult-oriented business and all persons
required by this Chapter to obtain an Adult-Oriented Business Performer
Permit, must apply for and obtain such a permit within ninety (90) days
of the effective date of Ordinance No. 332. Failure to do so and
continued operation of an adult-oriented business, or the continued
performances depicting specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities in an adult-oriented business after such time without a
permit shall constitute a violation of this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 4 of Article 4, adopted 5/27/97, effective
6/26/97; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.68
NON-PROFIT CAR WASHES

Sections:

   5.68.010   Permit Required

   5.68.020   Non-profit Car Wash Application and Permit

   5.68.030   Permit on Site During Car Wash

   5.68.040   Number and Time of Non-profit Car Washes

   5.68.050   Water Conservation Methods Required

   5.68.060   Signs and Solicitation

5.68.010   Permit Required.

No person, persons or organization shall conduct a non-profit car wash
unless a permit is approved by the Planning Director or his/her
designee.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.68.020   Non-profit Car Wash Application and Permit.

   A.   Any person, persons or organization intending to conduct a
non-profit car wash shall file an application with the Planning
Department for a permit not less than three (3) days, prior to the date
of such car wash.

   B.   The applicant shall state the date and location of the proposed
car wash, the name(s) of the person(s) primarily responsible for
conducting such car wash and a description of the charitable non-profit
group or organization which will receive the proceeds.

   C.   The permit shall be issued by the Planning Director or his/her
designee. The subject permit may be revoked by the Planning Director or
his/her designee if the applicant violates any provisions of this
Chapter, or any false information/representation is contained within the
application. If the applicant provides satisfactory explanation of the
violation, false information/representation, the Planning Director may
reactivate the permit.

   D.   The applicant shall provide proof to the satisfaction of the
Planning Director or his/her designee thereof that the organization or
group which shall receive the proceeds is non-profit and/or charitable
in nature. Such proof may include a written determination by any duly
authorized taxing agency of such non-profit or charitable status, or
such non-profit or charitable status may be determined as a matter of
law based upon statute.

   E.   There shall be no fee for said permit.

   F.   No permits may be issued or used during any period of time when
a Stage 2 “threatened water supply shortage” or a Stage 3 “water
shortage emergency” has been declared by the Board of the Adelanto
Public Utilities Authority.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.68.030   Permit on Site During Car Wash.

The valid permit shall be present on site during all times when the car
wash is being conducted. Said permit shall be produced upon request by
any appropriate City official acting within his/her official capacity.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.68.040   Number and Time of Non-profit Car Washes.

   A.   No person, persons or sponsoring organization shall conduct more
than six (6) non-profit car washes in any calendar year.

   B.   Each day or portion of a day on which a car wash is conducted
shall count as one (1) car wash.

   C.   Said car wash shall only be conducted between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.68.050   Water Conservation Methods Required.

   A.   All water hoses shall have a shut-off nozzle attached so that
the water will not run continuously.

   B.   Vehicles must be washed from a bucket.

   C.   If runoff becomes excessive, the permittee shall discontinue
activities until the standing water subsides.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.68.060   Signs and Solicitation.

   A.   Notwithstanding any County code provisions to the contrary,
signs advertising a non-profit car wash shall be displayed only on the
premises on which the car wash is conducted; and no sign shall exceed
nine (9) square feet. No signs may be placed on any sidewalks or within
any public right-of-way.

   B.   No solicitation may be done from any sidewalk or within any
public right-of-way in a manner which impedes or otherwise endangers or
interferes with the public’s use thereof.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.72
ENTERTAINMENT IN BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS

Sections:

   5.72.010   Findings

   5.72.020   Entertainment Permit Required

   5.72.030   Violations

5.72.010   Findings.

   A.   This City and other cities have experienced emerging problems
associated with business establishments which provide ancillary
entertainment in connection with regular business activities.

   B.   The problems relate to crowds, boisterous conduct, unruly
conduct, noise, congestion, traffic hazards, unauthorized parking, after
hours activities, criminal conduct and general anti-social behavior
which is beyond the ability of the business operator to control.

   C.   That “entertainment” as used herein shall include all types of
displays, music, karaoke, entertainers, exhibits, modeling, lingerie,
demonstrations, floor shows, dancing, sports, contests and any other
activity the purpose of which is to provide entertainment to customers
with or without charge.

[Ord. No. 258, Section 1, adopted 11/10/92; Ord. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]

5.72.020   Entertainment Permit Required.

   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide hereafter any
place of business where “entertainment” as defined herein is permitted
or allowed to be conducted without first obtaining an Entertainment
Permit (“EP”) as provided in the manner and means set forth in this
Chapter.

   B.   Any applicant for an EP shall file an application with the
Police Department stating in detail the nature, duration and frequency
of the proposed entertainment. If such entertainment is patently of a
nature protected by the First Amendment, then such EP shall be issued
summarily, in accordance with Chapter 5.64, unless the Chief of Police
finds that the proposal will cause a secondary effect upon the public
peace, welfare, safety and morals that such EP should be denied in the
public interest. If the proposed EP does not involve First Amendment
rights, then the decision to approve or deny shall be based on the
welfare of the community and the police problems involved. Action by the
Chief of Police to approve or deny shall be taken within ten (10) days
after the application is deemed complete and all information requested
has been supplied.

   C.   If the EP is approved, it shall contain such conditions as will
mitigate any secondary impacts found; if the EP is denied, the reasons
for denial shall be provided, together with alternate locations where
such EP might be approved.

   D.   Any applicant dissatisfied with the approval or disapproval of
an EP by the Chief of Police may within ten (10) days thereafter appeal
to the City Council, which shall hold a public hearing thereon at its
next regular meeting complying with agenda requirements. The decision of
the City Council shall be final.

[Ord. No. 258, Section 2, adopted 11/10/92; Ord. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]

5.72.030   Violations.

It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this Chapter. Violations of this Chapter, including any conditions,
rules, or regulations issued pursuant thereto, shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor and/or by suspension or revocation as specified in this
Chapter. Such penalties shall be cumulative and may be imposed, and each
day on which a violation continues, and each violation that takes place
shall constitute a separate offense.

[Ord. No. 258, Section 3, adopted 11/10/92; Ord. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.76
COMMERCIAL FILMING

Sections:

   5.76.010   Definitions

   5.76.020   Scope

   5.76.030   Application for Permit

   5.76.040   Insurance Requirements

   5.76.050   Regulations

   5.76.060   Violation and Penalty

5.76.010   Definitions.

Unless the context in which used requires otherwise, the following words
when used with initial capitalization shall have the meaning set forth
in this Section. Variants of defined terms, when used with initial
capitalization shall be construed in the same manner set forth herein
for the defined terms themselves:

   A.   “Motion picture, television, still photography” includes all
activities attendant to staging or shooting commercial motion pictures,
television shows or programs, and commercials.

   B.   “Charitable films” includes commercials, motion pictures,
television, video tapes, or still photography produced by a nonprofit
organization, which qualifies under Internal Revenue Code Section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code as a charitable organization. No
person directly or indirectly involved shall receive a profit from the
marketing and production of the films or from showing the films, tapes
or photos.

   C.   “News media” includes filming or video taping for the purpose of
spontaneous, unplanned television news broadcasts by reporters,
photographers or cameramen.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.76.020   Scope.

   A.   Except as exempted, no person, corporation or business shall use
any public or private property, facility or residence for the purpose of
taking commercial motion pictures or television pictures or commercial
still photography without first applying for and receiving a permit to
do so from the Department of Community Development.

   B.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the following:

      1.   News Media. Reporters, photographers or cameramen in the
employ of a newspaper, news service, or similar entity engaged in
on-the-spot broadcasting of news events concerning those persons,
scenes, or occurrences which are on the news and of general public
interest.

      2.   Private Use. The non-commercial filming or video taping of
motion pictures solely for private use on private property.

      3.   Charitable Films. Projects which have qualified for a
charitable exemption under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.76.030   Application for Permit.

   A.   Permit Applications - Filing. A commercial filming permit
application shall be filed with the Department of Community Development,
and shall be completed with the following information:

      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant or
duly authorized representative, and if available, of the director, first
assistant director, unit production manager or location manager.

      2.   The name and address of the individual or production company
to whom the permit is to be issued.

      3.   The type of production or project.

      4.   The date(s), time(s), and exact location(s) (including
preparation and striking days) where the filming shall occur.

      5.   A brief description of the proposed filming activity,
including any other activity which would affect the use of public
facilities in the area.

      6.   The number of individuals in cast and crew.

      7.   A description of the types and number of vehicles to be
utilized.

      8.   If an applicant intends to use either wild animals,
chemicals, explosives or fire, or intends to engage in any other
hazardous activity, a statement to that effect.

   B.   Fees and Expenses. The charge for the permit shall be that
charge set from time to time by resolution of the City Council. In
addition, each applicant shall reimburse the City for the actual costs
of providing any necessary personnel, including but not limited to,
police and fire personnel to the applicant for the purpose of assisting
the production.

   C.   Submittal.

      1.   All applications for a permit shall be submitted at least one
(1) working day prior to the date desired; provided, however, that if
the project will interfere with traffic or present a potential public
safety hazard, such application shall be submitted at least five (5)
working days prior to the desired date.

      2.   If the project shall take place in whole or in part on
private property, the application for a permit shall be accompanied by
written permission from the vested owners of the property.

      3.   If the project will interfere in any way with the normal flow
of traffic in the City, the applicant shall provide a traffic control
plan for review and approval.

         a.   The plan must utilize the services of local law
enforcement personnel and/or California Highway Patrol.

         b.   The plan must require the applicant to furnish and install
advance warning signs and any other traffic control devices in
conformance with City regulations.

         c.   The City, based on traffic safety consideration, may agree
to the restriction of traffic to one (1) twelve (12) foot lane of
traffic or to the stopping of such traffic intermittently.

         d.   Without prior written approval by the City, the traffic
shall not be detoured across a double yellow line.

         e.   Unless otherwise approved, camera cars shall observe all
traffic laws, and shall be driven in the direction of traffic.

         f.   The applicant shall agree to comply with all traffic
control requirements set by the City.

   D.   Issuance. The permit shall be issued by the City Planner and
shall be prominently displayed on site at all times.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.76.040   Insurance Requirements.

   A.   Before any permit is issued, the applicant shall provide the
City with evidence of a policy of liability insurance issued by a
solvent corporation holding a certificate of authority to engage in the
insurance business in the State of California in an amount not less than
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). The policy shall name the applicant
and the City, its officers, agents, servants, and employees, as
coinsured and the Flood Control District if applicable, for protection
against any loss, claims, liability, injury and damage of any nature
arising out of, or in any way connected to the filming conducted by
applicant, and the insurance coverage shall be primary and not
contributing with any other insurance of the City.

   B.   No cancellation or reduction in coverage or modification of this
policy, for any reason, shall become effective until the expiration of
thirty (30) days written notice of such cancellation, reduction or
modification of coverage shall have been given to the City Finance
Director.

   C.   The applicant shall enter into a hold harmless and
indemnification agreement provided by the City prior to the issuance of
any permit.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.76.050   Regulations.

   A.   Rules and Regulations. The City Planner or his/her designee
shall issue from time to time as deemed necessary, rules and regulations
as approved from time to time by resolution of the City Council to
implement the provisions of this Chapter. Such rules and regulations
shall have the force of law, and the failure to obey same shall be
considered a violation of the provisions of this Chapter. The rules and
regulations shall be promulgated with the intent of:

      1.   Maintaining the health and safety of all persons and property
within the City.

      2.   Avoidance of undue disruption of persons and traffic within
the affected areas of the City.

   B.   Clean Up. The permittee shall conduct operations in an orderly
fashion with continuous attention to storage of equipment not in use and
clean up of trash and debris. All areas of use shall be cleaned of trash
and debris and restored to its original condition upon completion of the
filming. The permittee may be required to post a deposit in an amount
set by resolution of the City Council to ensure clean up and
restoration. Said deposit shall be utilized to offset any clean up or
restoration expenses caused. Any unused portions of the deposit shall be
reimbursed.

   C.   Disruption. Any emergency road work shall have priority over any
commercial filming.

   D.   The City Planner may accommodate, at the applicant’s request,
minor changes to the permit to include time and date changes if
reasonable.

   E.   All permittees filming in a flood control channel must vacate
the channel upon water release and shall name the flood control district
as an additional insured when filming in or adjacent to flood control
property.

   F.   Unless the site is equipped with fire rings, gas jets shall be
used in lieu of fires to simulate a campfire, subject to the application
of existing fire protection regulations.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

5.76.060   Violation and Penalty.

Any person who holds a permit either by himself or through his
direction, consent, assent, permission, or acquiescence who shall
violate any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 1.20 of this Code.

[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]

Chapter 5.80
TOBACCO RETAILER’S LICENSE

Sections:

   5.80.010   Purpose

   5.80.020   Definitions

   5.80.030   Tobacco Retailer’s License Required

   5.80.040   Limits on Eligibility for a Tobacco Retailer License

   5.80.050   Application Procedure

   5.80.060   Issuance of License

   5.80.070   License Renewal and Expiration

   5.80.080   Licenses Nontransferable

   5.80.090   License Conveys a Limited, Conditional Privilege

   5.80.100   Fee for License

   5.80.110   Compliance Monitoring

   5.80.120   Suspension or Revocation of License for Violation

   5.80.130   Tobacco Retailing Without a Valid License

   5.80.140   Sale of Flavored Tobacco Products Prohibited

   5.80.150   Violations

5.80.010   Purpose.

The purpose of this chapter is to encourage responsible tobacco
retailing and discourage violations of tobacco related laws that
prohibit the sale or distribution of tobacco products, including all
smoking materials as defined in Section 5.80.020, to minors. This
chapter is not intended to expand or reduce the degree to which the acts
regulated by federal or state law are criminally proscribed or to alter
the penalty provided therefore.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.020   Definitions.

The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly
requires otherwise:

   A.   "Arm's Length Transaction" means a sale in good faith and for
valuable consideration that reflects the fair market value between two
informed and willing parties, neither of which is under any compulsion
to participate in the transaction. A sale between relatives, related
companies or partners, or a sale for which a significant purpose is
avoiding the effect of the violations of this chapter is not an Arm's
Length Transaction.

   B.   "Cigar" means any roll of tobacco other than a cigarette wrapped
entirely or in part in tobacco or any substance containing tobacco and
weighing more than three pounds per thousand.

   C.   "Cigarette" means: (1) any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or
in any substance not containing tobacco; and (2) any roll of tobacco
wrapped in any substance containing tobacco which, because of its
appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging and
labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as a
cigarette described herein.

   D.   "Characterizing Flavor" means a taste or aroma, other than the
taste or aroma of tobacco, imparted either prior to or during
consumption of a tobacco product or any byproduct produced by the
tobacco product, including, but not limited to, tastes or aromas
relating to menthol, mint, wintergreen, fruit, chocolate, vanilla,
honey, candy, cocoa, dessert, alcoholic beverage, herb, or spice;
provided, however, that a tobacco product shall not be determined to
have a characterizing flavor solely because of the use of additives or
flavorings or the provision of ingredient information.

   E.   "Consumer" means a person who purchases a tobacco product for
consumption and not for sale to another.

   F.   "Department" means Planning Division and any agency or person
designated by the Department to enforce or administer the provisions of
this chapter.

   G.   "Flavored Tobacco Product" means any tobacco product, as defined
in this chapter, that imparts a characterizing flavor.

   H.   "Person" means any natural person, partnership, cooperative
association, corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee,
assignee, or any other legal entity.

   I.   "Proprietor" means a person with an ownership or managerial
interest in a business. An ownership interest shall be deemed to exist
when a person has a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in the stock,
assets, or income of a business other than the sole interest of security
for debt. A managerial interest shall be deemed to exist when a person
can or does have or share ultimate control over the day-to-day
operations of a business.

   J.   "Sale" or "Sell" means any transfer, exchange, barter, gift,
offer for sale, or distribution for a commercial purpose, in any manner
or by any means whatsoever.

   K.   "Tobacco Paraphernalia" means any item designed or marketed for
the consumption, use, or preparation of tobacco products.

   L.   "Tobacco Product" means:

      1.   Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco or
nicotine that is intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated,
chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by
any other means, including, but not limited to cigarettes, cigars,
little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff; and

      2.   Any electronic device that delivers nicotine or other
substances to the person inhaling from the device, including, but not
limited to, an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic pipe,
or electronic hookah.

      3.   Notwithstanding any provision of subsections (1) and (2) to
the contrary, "Tobacco Product" includes any component, part, or
accessory intended or reasonably expected to be used with a tobacco
product, whether or not sold separately. "Tobacco Product" does not
include drugs, devices, or combination products authorized for sale by
the United States Food and Drug Administration, as those terms are
defined in the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.

   M.   "Tobacco Retailer" means any person who sells, offers for sale,
or does or offers to exchange for any form of consideration, tobacco,
tobacco products, or tobacco paraphernalia.

   N.   "Tobacco Retailing" shall mean the doing of any of these things.
This definition is without regard to the quantity of tobacco products or
tobacco paraphernalia sold, offered for sale, exchanged, or offered for
exchange.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.030   Tobacco Retailer's License Required.

   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to act as a tobacco retailer
in the City without first obtaining and maintaining a valid tobacco
retailer's license pursuant to this chapter for each location at which
tobacco retailing is to occur.

   B.   Lawful Business Operation. In the course of tobacco retailing or
in the operation of the business or maintenance of the location for
which a license issued, it shall be a violation of this chapter for a
licensee, or any of the licensee's agents or employees, to violate any
local, state, or federal law applicable to tobacco products, tobacco
paraphernalia, or tobacco retailing.

   C.   Display of License. Each tobacco retailer license shall be
prominently displayed in a publicly visible location at the licensed
location.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.040   Limits on Eligibility for a Tobacco Retailer License.

Mobile Vending. No license may be issued to authorize tobacco retailing
at other than a fixed location, including, but not limited to, tobacco
retailing by persons on foot or from vehicles.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.050   Application Procedure.

   A.   Application for a tobacco retailer's license shall be submitted
in the name of each proprietor proposing to conduct retail tobacco sales
and shall be signed by each proprietor or an authorized agent thereof.

   B.   It is the responsibility of each proprietor to be informed
regarding all laws applicable to tobacco retailing, including those laws
affecting the issuance of a tobacco retailer's license. No proprietor
may rely on the issuance of a license as a determination by the City
that the proprietor has complied with all laws applicable to tobacco
retailing. A license issued contrary to this chapter, contrary to any
other law, or on the basis of false or misleading information supplied
by a proprietor shall be revoked pursuant to Section 5.80.120(C) of this
chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to vest in any
person obtaining and maintaining a tobacco retailer's license any status
or right to act as a tobacco retailer in contravention of any provision
of law.

   C.   All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the
Department and shall contain the following information:

      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of each proprietor of
the business seeking a license.

      2.   The business name, address, and telephone number of the
single fixed location for which a license is sought.

      3.   A single name and mailing address authorized by each
proprietor to receive all communications and notices (the "authorized
address") required by, authorized by, or convenient to the enforcement
of this chapter. If an authorized address is not supplied, each
proprietor shall be understood to consent to the provision of notice at
the business address specified in subparagraph (2) above.

      4.   Proof that the location for which a tobacco retailer's
license is sought has been issued a valid state license for the sale of
tobacco products, if the tobacco retailer sells products that require
such license.

      5.   Whether or not any proprietor or any agent of the proprietor
has admitted violating, or has been found to have violated, this chapter
and, if so, the dates and locations of all such violations within the
previous five (5) years.

   D.   Such other information as the Department deems necessary for the
administration or enforcement of this chapter as specified on the
application form required by this section.

   E.   A licensed tobacco retailer shall inform the Department in
writing of any change in the information submitted on an application for
a tobacco retailer's license within ten (10) business days of a change.

   F.   All information specified in an application pursuant to this
section shall be subject to disclosure under the California Public
Records Act (California Government Code section 6250 et seq.) or any
other applicable law.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.060   Issuance of License.

   A.   Upon the receipt of a complete application for a tobacco
retailer's license and the license fee required by this chapter, the
Department shall issue a license unless substantial evidence
demonstrates that one or more of the following bases for denial exists:

      1.   The information presented in the application is inaccurate or
false. Intentionally supplying inaccurate or false information shall be
a violation of this chapter;

      2.   The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing for
a proprietor to whom this chapter prohibits a license to be issued;
and/or

      3.   The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing
that is prohibited pursuant to this Code including without limitation
the Adelanto Zoning Ordinance, Title 14 Building and Construction, and
Title 5 Business Licenses and Regulations, or that is unlawful pursuant
to any other state, and federal law.

   B.   Beginning from the effective date of this chapter, all
proprietor proposing to conduct retail tobacco sales have until June 30,
2020 to obtain a tobacco retailer's license.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.070   License Renewal and Expiration.

   A.   Renewal of License. A tobacco retailer's license is invalid if
the appropriate fee has not been timely paid in full or if the term of
the license has expired. The term of a tobacco retailer license is one
(1) year. Each tobacco retailer shall apply for the renewal of their
tobacco retailer's license and submit the license fee no later than
thirty (30) days prior to expiration of the term.

   B.   Expiration of License. A tobacco retailer's license that is not
timely renewed shall expire at the end of its term. To renew a license
not timely renewed pursuant to subparagraph A., the proprietor must:

      1.   Submit the license fee and application renewal form; and

      2.   Submit a signed affidavit affirming that the proprietor:

         a.   Has not sold and will not sell any tobacco product or
tobacco paraphernalia after the license expiration date and before the
license is renewed; or

         b.   Has waited the period of time required by Section 5.80.130
of this chapter for tobacco retailing without a valid license before
seeking renewal of the license.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.080   Licenses Nontransferable.

   A.   A tobacco retailer's license may not be transferred from one
person to another or from one location to another. A new tobacco
retailer's license is required whenever a tobacco retailing location has
a change in proprietor(s).

   B.   Any other provision of this chapter, prior violations at a
location shall continue to be counted against a location and license
ineligibility periods shall continue to apply to a location unless:

      1.   The location has been transferred to new proprietor(s) in an
arm's length transaction; and

      2.   The new proprietor(s) provide the City with clear and
convincing evidence that the new proprietor(s) have acquired or are
acquiring the location in an arm's length transaction.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.090   License Conveys a Limited, Conditional Privilege.

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to grant any person obtaining
and maintaining a tobacco retailer's license any status or right other
than the limited conditional privilege to act as a tobacco retailer at
the location in the City identified on the face of the permit. Nothing
in this chapter shall be construed to render inapplicable, supersede, or
apply in lieu of, any other provision of applicable law, including, but
not limited to:

   A.   Any provision of this Code including without limitation the
Adelanto Zoning Ordinance, Title 14 Building and Construction, and Title
5 Business Licenses and Regulations; and/or

   B.   Any condition or limitation on smoking in an enclosed place of
employment pursuant to California Labor Code Section 6404.5. Obtaining a
tobacco retailer's license does not make the retailer a "retail or
wholesale tobacco shop" for the purposes of California Labor Code
Section 6404.5.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.100   Fee for License.

The fee to issue or to renew a tobacco retailer's license shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council. The fee
shall be calculated so as to recover the cost of administration and
enforcement of this chapter, including, for example, issuing a license,
administering the license program, retailer education, retailer
inspection and compliance checks, documentation of violations, and
prosecution of violators, but shall not exceed the cost of the
regulatory program authorized by this chapter. All fees and interest
upon proceeds of fees shall be used exclusively to fund the program.
Fees are nonrefundable except as may be required by law.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.110   Compliance Monitoring.

   A.   Compliance with this chapter shall be monitored by the
Department. In addition, any peace officer may enforce the penal
provisions of this chapter. The City may designate additional persons to
monitor compliance with this chapter.

   B.   The City Council of the City of Adelanto does not intend and
nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to penalize the purchase,
use, possession, or attempted purchase, use, or possession of tobacco
products or tobacco paraphernalia by persons under twenty-one (21) years
of age; provided, however, that persons under twenty-one (21) years of
age remain subject to generally applicable laws regulating such conduct
without respect to the person's age.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.120   Suspension or Revocation of License for Violation.

   A.   Suspension or Revocation of License for Violation. In addition
to any other penalty authorized by law, a tobacco retailer's license
shall be suspended or revoked if any court of competent jurisdiction
determines, or the Department finds based on a preponderance of the
evidence, after the licensee is afforded notice and an opportunity to be
heard, that the licensee, or any of the licensee's agents or employees,
has violated any of the requirements, conditions, or prohibitions of
this chapter or has pleaded guilty, "no contest" or its equivalent, or
admitted to a violation of any law designated in Section 5.80.030 above.

      1.   Upon a finding by the Department of a first violation of this
chapter at a location within any five-year (5) period, the license shall
be suspended for thirty (30) days.

      2.   Upon a finding by the Department of a second violation of
this chapter at a location within any five-year (5) period, the license
shall be suspended for ninety (90) days.

      3.   Upon a finding by the Department of a third violation of this
chapter at a location within any five-year (5) period, the license shall
be suspended for one (1) year.

      4.   Upon a finding by the Department of four or more violations
of this chapter at a location within any five-year (5) period, the
license shall be revoked.

   B.   Appeal of Suspension or Revocation. A decision of the Department
to suspend or revoke a license is appealable to the City Manager and any
appeal must be filed in writing with City Manager's office within ten
(10) days of mailing of the Department's decision. If such an appeal is
timely made, it shall stay enforcement of the appealed action. An appeal
to the City Manager is not available for a revocation made pursuant to
subsection (c) below.

   C.   Revocation of License Wrongly Issued. A tobacco retailer's
license shall be revoked if the Department finds, after the licensee is
afforded notice and an opportunity to be heard, that one or more of the
bases for denial of a license under Section 5.80.060 existed at the time
application was made or at any time before the license issued. The
decision by the Department shall be the final decision of the City. Such
a revocation shall be without prejudice to the filing of a new license
application.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.130   Tobacco Retailing without a Valid License.

In addition to any other penalty authorized by law, if a court of
competent jurisdiction determines, or the Department finds based on a
preponderance of evidence, after notice and an opportunity to be heard,
that any person has engaged in tobacco retailing at a location without a
valid tobacco retailer's license, either directly or through the
person's agents or employees, the person shall be ineligible to apply
for, or to be issued, a tobacco retailer's license after a violation of
this section at a location where the violation occurred within any
five-year (5) period. Unless ownership of the business at the location
has been transferred in an arm's length transaction, no new license
shall be issued for the person or the location, until thirty (30) days
have passed from the date of the violation.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.140   Sale of Flavored Tobacco Products Prohibited.

It shall be a violation of this chapter for any tobacco retailer or any
of the tobacco retailer's agents or employees to sell or offer for sale,
or to possess with intent to sell or offer for sale, any flavored
tobacco product.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

5.80.150   Violations.

   A.   The remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in
addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity.

   B.   Whenever evidence of a violation of this chapter is obtained in
any part through the participation of a person under the age of
twenty-one (21) years old, such a person shall not be required to appear
or give testimony in any civil or administrative process brought to
enforce this chapter and the alleged violation shall be adjudicated
based upon the sufficiency and persuasiveness of the evidence presented.

   C.   Violations of this chapter are subject to a civil action brought
by the City Attorney, punishable by a civil fine as set forth in Section
1.20.010 of this Code.

   D.   Violations of this chapter shall be prosecuted as set forth in
Section 1.20.010 of this Code.

   E.   Violations of this chapter are hereby declared to be public
nuisances.

   F.   In addition to other remedies provided by this chapter or by
other law, any violation of this chapter may be remedied by a civil
action brought by the City, including, for example, administrative or
judicial nuisance abatement proceedings, civil code enforcement
proceedings, and suits for injunctive relief.

   G.   For the purposes of the civil remedies provided in this chapter:

      1.   Each day on which a tobacco product or tobacco paraphernalia
is offered for Sale in violation of this chapter shall constitute a
separate violation of this chapter; and

      2.   Each individual retail tobacco product and each individual
retail item of tobacco paraphernalia that is distributed, sold, or
offered for sale in violation of chapter shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter.

[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]

Chapter 5.82
SIDEWALK VENDORS

Sections:

   5.82.010   Purpose

   5.82.020   Definitions

   5.82.030   Permits Required; Fees

   5.82.040   Regulation of Sidewalk Vendors

   5.82.050   Exceptions

   5.82.060   Violations and Penalties

   5.82.070   Ability-to-Pay Determination

5.82.010   Purpose.

It is the purpose and intent of Chapter 5.82 to comply with state
legislation decriminalizing sidewalk vending and to provide important
entrepreneurial and economic opportunities by allowing sidewalk vending
in city parks and on public sidewalk and other paved pedestrian paths.
It is a further purpose and intent of this Chapter 5.82 to regulate
sidewalk vending in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the residents of Adelanto in a manner consistent with state law. In
order to meet these objectives, business licenses and sidewalk vending
permits shall be required to vend in city parks, on sidewalks, or on
other paved public pedestrian paths. The provisions of this Chapter 5.82
are in addition to any permits, licenses and approvals which may be
required to conduct business in the City, and in addition to any
permits, licenses and approval required under state, county or other
law.

[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]

5.82.020   Definitions.

For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.

   A.   “Food item” shall mean all food and drink intended for human
consumption.

   B.   “Public right-of-way” shall mean any public sidewalk or any
public property within the City.

   C.   "Roaming sidewalk vendor" shall mean a sidewalk vendor who moves
from place to place and stops only to complete a transaction, and
includes, but is not limited to pushcarts.

   D.   “Sidewalk vendor” shall mean a person who sells food or
merchandize from a pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart, wagon,
showcase, rack, or other non-motorized conveyance, or from one’s person,
upon public street, public right-of-way, or public property.

   E.   “Stationary sidewalk vendor” shall mean a sidewalk vendor who
vends from a fixed location.

[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]

5.82.030   Permits Required; Fees.

   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in or employ any person
to engage in the business of sidewalk vending without first obtaining
and maintaining a sidewalk vending permit pursuant to this Chapter 5.82
to conduct such business.

   B.   Fees for such permits shall be in an amount determined by
resolution.

   C.   To apply for a sidewalk vending permit, an applicant must
provide:

      1.   A completed application form containing:

         a.   The applicant’s name and mailing address;

         b.   A description of the merchandise offered for sale or
exchange;

         c.   Although applicant shall not be restricted to a proposed
area of operation, the applicant shall submit a proposed area of
operation with reference to street and other identifying landmarks;

         d.   If applicable, the name of any business entity the
applicant works for or with;

         e.   Certification that the information in the application is
true; and

         f.   Agreement to comply with all provisions of this chapter
and all applicable provisions of this code.

      2.   A copy of the applicant’s California driver’s license or
identification number, individual taxpayer identification number, social
security number, federal identification number, or other identification
number issued by a foreign government.

      3.   If vending food, a copy of a valid health permit issued by
the County of San Bernardino.

      4.   Copies of all other applicable required licenses and permits.

   D.   Permits must be renewed on an annual basis.

   E.   Up to five (5) permits may be issued to any one (1) person. Each
sidewalk vendor permit shall only permit the operation of one (1)
sidewalk vendor at any one (1) time. A sidewalk vendor permit is not
transferrable to another person.

   F.   The Director of Development Services or their designee may
suspend or revoke any permit issued pursuant to this chapter for any of
the following reasons:

      1.   Revocation, suspension, or nonrenewal of the required San
Bernardino County Health Department permit, if applicable for food
vendors.

      2.   Upon the fourth violation or subsequent violations of the
regulations set forth in this Chapter 5.82.

   G.   The issuance of a sidewalk vending permit does not authorize
otherwise unlawful activities and does not exempt permittees from
complying with other applicable regulations.

[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]

5.82.040   Regulation of Sidewalk Vendors.

   A.   Sidewalk vendors shall have a valid permit from the San
Bernardino Department of Public Health Division of Environmental health
operating permit for food sales, except where the County does not issue
permits for the type of sidewalk vending operating by the vendor. The
revocation of a County permit shall result in the automatic suspension
of the sidewalk vending permit issued by the City.

   B.   Sidewalk vendors shall display their City-issued sidewalk
vending permit on the street-side portion of their pushcart, stand,
display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or other
non-motorized conveyance when operating in the public right-of-way.

   C.   Sidewalk vendors shall not display items for sale on the ground.
Sidewalk vendors shall only display their merchandise from a pushcart,
stand, display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or other
non-motorized conveyance.

   D.   All vendor conveyances shall be maintained in a clean and
working state.

   E.   Sidewalk vendors shall maintain a clean selling area, provide a
means for patrons to dispose of trash, and haul away all trash generated
by his or her operation. Every sidewalk vendor shall provide a refuse
container with a capacity of at least five (5) gallons. Sidewalk vendors
shall dispose of trash at vendor’s own place of business or residence;
sidewalk vendors shall not place trash in public trash cans or in a
private trash can not related to the sidewalk vendor’s operation.

   F.   Sidewalk vendors shall not use any signs in connection with the
sale, display or offering for sale of items, except for those signs
affixed to or painted on the sides or canopy of the pushcart, stand,
display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or other
non-motorized conveyance.

   G.   Sidewalk vendors using electricity must do so only through the
use of a generator or battery pack which may be contained on the floor,
the sidewalk vending pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart, wagon,
showcase, rack, or other non-motorized conveyance. Sidewalk vendors
shall not use extension cords to connect to a power source not contained
on the sidewalk vending pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart,
wagon, showcase, rack, or other nonmotorized conveyance.

   H.   Sidewalk vending must be contained to the sidewalk vending cart.
Sidewalk vendors may not augment operations by setting up accessories,
equipment, tables, chairs, or stools near the sidewalk vending pushcart,
stand, display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or other
non-motorized conveyance.

   I.   Sidewalk vending is limited to the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m.

   J.   Stationary sidewalk vendors are prohibited from operating in
areas that are zoned as exclusively residential, except for major
intersections. Stationary sidewalk vendors may operate in mixed-use
areas and non-conforming residential structures so long as they operate
adjacent to a permitted commercial use. Roaming sidewalk vendors
operating in areas that are zoned as exclusively residential shall stop
only to complete transactions.

   K.   Sidewalk vendors shall not sell, display, or offer to sell items
in the following:

      1.   Within six hundred (600) feet of the Police Department or
Fire Station.

      2.   Within five hundred (500) feet of a permitted swap meet, or
any area subject to a City-issued special event permit for the duration
of the permit.

      3.   On a center divider, a landscaped center median or landscaped
parkway.

      4.   Within twenty-five (25) feet of another vendor, measured on
the same side of any public right-of-way.

   L.   To maintain accessibility standards for the City’s residents
with disabilities, every sidewalk vendor operating on public property or
in the public right-of-way must ensure that no obstruction is placed in
the sidewalk or public right-of-way that would reduce the width of the
sidewalk to less than forty-eight (48) inches, exclusive of the top of
the curb. No obstruction shall be in a sidewalk or public right-of-way
less than six (6) feet in width when the sidewalk is adjacent to the
curb.

   M.   A stationary sidewalk vendor may not occupy more than fifteen
(15) square feet on public property or in the public right-of-way.

   N.   Vending of counterfeit merchandise is prohibited.

   O.   A sidewalk vending permit does not provide an exclusive right to
operate within any specific portion of public property of public
right-of-way. No person shall attempt to reserve any portion of any
public property or public right-of-way exclusively for his or her
operation.

   P.   Sidewalk vendors shall not leave or maintain any accessories,
equipment, or objects used for sidewalk vending purposes on public
property or in any portion of the public rightof-way after sunset or
before sunrise. Any equipment or objects left overnight on public
property or in any portion of the public right-of-way will be considered
discarded and may be disposed of by the City.

   Q.   Sidewalk vendors shall not engage in vending in such a manner as
to cause onlookers, customers, or others to obstruct the free flow,
access, or view of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.

   R.   Sidewalk vendors shall not operate in traffic intersections,
streets, street medians, or street dividers.

   S.   Sidewalk vendors shall not stop, operate, or vend within fifty
(50) feet of any intersection.

   T.   Sidewalk vendors shall not stop, operate, or vend within
twenty-five (25) feet of any red curb or fire lane.

   U.   Sidewalk vending in City parks is limited to sidewalks and other
paved areas within the park.

   V.   Sidewalk vendors shall be prohibited from selling food or
merchandise at public parks where the City has entered into an agreement
for the exclusive sale of food or merchandise with a particular
concessionaire.

[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]

5.82.050   Exceptions.

   The City Manager may issue, upon application, temporary street
vending permits to be valid for no longer than the period designated in
the special event permit issued by the City. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this chapter, such temporary permits may authorize sale of
non-food items.

[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]

5.82.060   Violations and Penalties.

   A.   Every person vending without a sidewalk vending permit or
violating any other provision of this chapter is guilty of an
administrative violation punishable by an administrative fine not to
exceed:

      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first violation; or

      2.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second violation within a
period of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months of the first
violation; or

      3.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each additional violation
within a period of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months of the first
violation.

   B.   Failure to pay an administrative fine is not punishable as an
infraction or misdemeanor. Additional fines, fees, assessments, or any
other financial conditions beyond those authorized will not be assessed.
However, the City may levy a lien on the violator’s real or personal
property, including the vehicle used for vending purposes.

[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]

5.82.070   Ability-to-Pay Determination.

   A.   Any fine issued under Section 5.82.060 will be accompanied with
a notice of an instruction regarding the right to request an
ability-to-pay determination.

   B.   If the requestor is receiving public benefits under Government
Code section 68632, subdivision (a), or has a monthly income which is
one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) or less than the current poverty
guidelines updated periodically in the Federal Register by the United
States Department of Health and Human Services, the Community
Development Director or his or her designee will limit the total amount
of the requestor’s administrative fine to twenty percent (20%) of the
total and may:

      1.   Allow the person to complete community service in lieu of
paying the total administrative fine; or

      2.   Waive the administrative fine; or

      3.   Offer an alternative disposition.

[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]

Chapter 5.84
FOOD TRUCKS

Sections:

   5.84.010   Purpose

   5.84.020   Definitions

   5.84.030   Permits Required; Fees

   5.84.040   Regulation of Food Trucks

   5.84.050   Food Trucks on Public Right-of-Way

   5.84.060   Exceptions

   5.84.070   Violations and Penalties

5.84.010   Purpose.

It is the purpose and intent of Chapter 5.84 to allow mobile food
vending, also known as “food trucks” or “food truck vending” within the
City that complies with City, county, and state laws and regulations. It
is a further purpose and intent of this Chapter 5.84 to regulate food
truck vending in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of Adelanto in a manner consistent with state and local law.
In order to meet these objectives, business licenses and food truck
permits shall be required to vend in the City. The provisions of this
Chapter 5.84 are in addition to any permits, licenses and approvals that
may be required to conduct business in the City, and in addition to any
permits, licenses and approvals required under state, county, or other
law.

[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]

5.84.020   Definitions.

The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Chapter, shall
have the meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly
requires otherwise:

   A.   “Food or food products” means any type of edible substance or
beverage.

   B.   “Food truck operator” means a person that operates or assists in
the operation of a food truck.

   C.   “Food Truck” means any motorized device or vehicle by which any
person or property may be propelled or moved upon a highway, or which
may be towed by a motorized device or vehicle, from which food or food
products are prepared, sold, offered for sale, displayed, bartered,
exchanged or otherwise given. This definition shall exclude sidewalk
vendors, roaming sidewalk vendors, and stationary sidewalk vendors as
defined in Section 5.82.020.

   D.   “Food Truck Permit” shall mean a business license issued
pursuant to this Chapter for the purpose of operating a food truck in
the City.

   E.   “Public right-of-way” means any street, avenue, boulevard,
highway, sidewalk or alley or similar place which is owned or controlled
by a governmental entity, and the area along and upon any public road or
highway.

   F.   “Vend or vending” means to sell, offer for sale, display,
barter, exchange, or otherwise give food or food products from a food
truck.

   G.   “Vendor” means a person who vends, including an employee or
agent of a vendor.

[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]

5.84.030   Permit Required; Fees.

   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in or employ any person
to engage in the business of operating a food truck vehicle without
first obtaining and maintaining a food truck permit pursuant to this
Chapter 5.84 to conduct such business.

   B.   Fees for such permits shall be in an amount determined by
resolution.

   C.   To apply for a food truck permit, an applicant must provide:

      1.   A signed and completed application form containing:

         a.   The applicant’s name, mailing address, and telephone
number;

         b.   The applicant’s business name, including the name
identifying and posted on the subject food truck;

         c.   Ownership type (e.g., sole proprietorship, or corporation,
etc.);

         d.   A description of the type of food or beverages to be sold
and hours of operation;

         e.   A description and photograph (including colors and any
signs) of the food truck(s) to be used, including vehicle identification
number(s) and license plate number(s);

         f.   A copy of a valid health permit issued by the County of
San Bernardino;

         g.   Copies of all other applicable required licenses,
certificates, and permits, including, but not limited to, Public Health
Operating Permit, Operators Food Handler’s Certificate, Food Vehicle
Certificate Sticker, Seller’s Permit, and proof of liability insurance;

         h.   Certification that the information in the application is
true; and

         i.   Agreement to comply with all provisions of this Chapter,
all applicable provisions of this code, and all applicable federal,
state and local laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, etc.

      2.   Payment for permit fees.

   D.   Food truck permits must be renewed yearly and are not
transferrable.

   E.   Upon applying for a food truck permit and upon applying for
renewal of a food truck permit, food truck operators shall provide a
list of sites on which the food truck vehicle has been, or will be,
stationed through the previous and upcoming year, as well as owner
authorizations that correspond to those properties.

   F.   The City Manager or their designee may revoke or suspend any
food truck permit issued pursuant to this Chapter for any of the
following reasons:

      1.   Revocation, suspension, or nonrenewal of the required permit
from the San Bernardino County Department of Public Health Division of
Environmental Health Services;

      2.   Upon the second violation of the same regulation set forth in
this Chapter 5.84 in a single year; or

      3.   Upon the third violation of the regulations set forth in this
Chapter 5.84 in a single year.

      4.   Upon failure to pay administrative fines pursuant to Section
5.84.070.

   G.   A food truck operator shall also have a valid business license
from the City.

[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]

5.84.040   Regulation of Food Trucks.

   A.   Food truck operators shall comply with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws.

   B.   Food trucks shall have a valid permit from the San Bernardino
County Department of Public Health Division of Environmental Health
Services. The revocation of a County permit shall be communicated to the
City in writing and shall result in the automatic suspension of the food
truck permit issued by the City. A copy of said permit shall be kept in
the food truck and shall be visible at all times.

   C.   Food trucks shall display in conspicuous view their City-issued
food truck permit or decal and business license on the customer-facing
portion of their vehicle when operating within the City.

   D.   Food trucks shall maintain a clean selling area and haul away
all trash generated by their operation. Every food truck shall provide a
refuse container in the immediate vicinity of the food truck. Prior to
leaving the location, the food truck operator shall pick up, remove and
dispose of all trash generated by the food truck’s operation located
within a fifty (50) foot radius of the food truck’s location. Trash
generated by food truck operations shall not be disposed of in public
trash receptacles.

   E.   No discharging of any liquid waste is permitted except at a
County-approved commissary.

   F.   Food trucks shall not use any signs in connection with the sale,
display or offering for sale of items or food, except for those signs
affixed to or painted on the food truck vehicle, and menus or
promotional signs situated in the immediate vicinity of the food truck.

   G.   The use of flashing lights, strobe lights, and flood lights is
prohibited.

   H.   Food trucks shall not operate within fifty (50) feet of a fire
hydrant or within twenty-five (25) feet of a bus stop.

   I.   Vending must be contained to the food truck. Food truck
operators may not augment operations by setting up accessories,
equipment, tables, chairs, or stools near the vehicle.

   J.   Food trucks shall be limited to operating in residential areas
from 8:00 a.m. through 8:00 p.m. on days Sunday through Thursday, and
from 8:00 a.m. through 9:00 p.m. on days Friday and Saturday. In all
other areas of the City, food trucks shall be limited to operating
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. every day.

   K.   Food truck operators shall have with them all of the following
documents while vending within the City:

      1.   Proof of liability insurance;

      2.   Food handler’s certificate;

      3.   Seller’s permit;

      4.   City-issued business license;

      5.   City-issued food truck permit or decal; and

      6.   Operating permit issued by the San Bernardino County
Department of Public Health Division of Environmental Health Services.

   L.   A food truck permit does not provide an exclusive right to
operate within any specific portion of public property or public
right-of-way. No person shall attempt to reserve any portion of any
public property or public right-of-way exclusively for the operation of
their food truck.

   M.   Food truck operators shall not leave or maintain a food truck or
any accessories, equipment, or objects used for food truck vending
purposes on public property or in any portion of the public right-of-way
overnight. Any equipment or objects left overnight on public property or
in any portion of the public right-of-way will be considered discarded
and may be disposed of by the City.

   N.   Food trucks shall be stored overnight at or within a commissary
or other location approved by the San Bernardino County Department of
Public Health.

   O.   Food truck operators shall not engage in vending in such a
manner as to cause onlookers, vehicle drivers, customers, or others to
obstruct the free flow, access, or view of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic.

   P.   No food truck shall operate in such a way so as to reduce or
impair motorists’ view of any cross street, crosswalk, driveway or any
other similar location where traffic, be it vehicular, pedestrian or
bicycle, can be expected to enter the street, and in any way contributes
to a traffic hazard or unsafe driving conditions.

   Q.   Food truck vending operations shall at all times comply with the
provisions of the City’s Noise Control Ordinance, Chapter 9.110 of Title
9 of the Adelanto Municipal Code.

   R.   The food truck operator shall maintain and supply to the City,
copies of policies of commercial general liability and automobile
liability, in an amount of no less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence, naming the City as an additional
insured.

   S.   Food truck operators shall be prohibited from vending food or
food products at public parks where the City has entered into an
agreement for the exclusive sale of food or food products with a
particular concessionaire or vendor.

   T.   Food trucks shall be operated within 200 feet travel distance of
an approved and readily available toilet and handwashing facility to
ensure that restroom facilities are available to employees whenever the
food truck is stopped to conduct business for more than a one (1)-hour
period. Food truck operators must provide written evidence of permission
from an adjoining property or business owner to use their restroom
facilities.

   U.   Food truck operators shall obtain property owner authorization
when temporarily or permanently vending on private or on City-owned
property, and shall carry evidence of written property owner
authorization at all times. If operating in state right-of-way, the
mobile vendor shall provide evidence of the state's authorization.

   V.   This section is not intended to be enforced against sidewalk
vendors, roaming sidewalk vendors, and stationary sidewalk vendors as
defined in Section 5.82.020.

[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]

5.84.050   Food Trucks on Public Right-of-Way.

Food truck operators may locate food trucks in the public right-of-way
as long as the food truck operator adheres to all other provisions of
this Chapter and the following standards and conditions:

   A.   The food truck operations shall not obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular traffic.

   B.   If parked alongside a roadway, food vending shall be limited
solely to that side of the food truck facing away from vehicular traffic
and shall be prohibited on the traffic-facing side of the food truck.

   C.   A food truck operator shall not distribute any item from the
food truck in a manner that causes any person to stand, sit, or
otherwise occupy any portion of the street.

   D.   A food truck operator shall not encroach onto a public sidewalk
with any part of its food truck or any other equipment or furniture
related to the operation of its business.

   E.   No food truck shall be parked, stopped or left standing in any
manner that blocks or impedes vehicular access to any driveway or
restricts the free movement of emergency vehicles.

   F.   The food truck is in full compliance with all parking
regulations and Vehicle Code provisions that apply to the location at
which it is parked.

[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]

5.84.060   Exceptions.

   A.   No food truck permit shall be required when food truck vending
is associated with the operation of a City-issued temporary special
event permit, subject to the conditions thereof.

   B.   No food truck permit shall be required when food truck
operations are solely limited to private event catering services and
when all of the following provisions are met:

      1.   The food truck is situated entirely on private property;

      2.   Service is limited to the guests of the catered event only;
and

      3.   No payment transactions shall occur for individual orders
taken by the food truck operator.

[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]

5.84.070   Violations and Penalties.

Any violation of the provisions of this Chapter, at the discretion of
the City taking into account the nature of an alleged violation and any
previously issued warnings, is punishable as an infraction or
misdemeanor, and any violation of the provisions of this Chapter is
subject to an administrative citation, at the discretion of the City,
punishable by an administrative fine as follows:

      1.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first violation within
a calendar year.

      2.   Seven hundred dollars ($750.00) for the second violation
within a calendar year.

      3.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the third violation
within a calendar year.

Failure to pay an administrative fine within thirty (30) calendar days
may result in revocation or suspension of a food truck permit and/or
business license pursuant to Section 5.84.030(E)(4).

[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]

TITLE 6
RESERVED

TITLE 7
ANIMALS

Chapters:

   7.04   Animal Control

   7.05   Rabies Vaccination (Biting and Bitten Animals)

   7.06   Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious Animals; Public
Nuisance Animal Hearings

Chapter 7.04
ANIMAL CONTROL

Sections:

   7.04.010   Definitions

   7.04.020   Mandatory Licensing

   7.04.030   Impoundment of Animals - Persons Charged with Enforcement

   7.04.040   Disposition of Dead Animals

   7.04.050   Animal Waste

   7.04.060   Control of Animals

   7.04.070   Animal Noise

   7.04.080   Selling Animals

   7.04.085   Breeding Prohibited

   7.04.090   Wild, Exotic or Non-domestic Animals in Captivity

   7.04.095   Livestock

   7.04.100   Annual Permit/Business License

   7.04.110   Enforcement

   7.04.120   Animal Limitations

   7.04.125   Commercial Kennels

   7.04.130   Apiaries

   7.04.135   Commercial Catteries

   7.04.140   Penalty Provisions

   7.04.145   Abatement of Public Nuisance

   7.04.150   Notification of Nuisance

   7.04.160   Appeal Procedure through a Hearing Officer

   7.04.170   Decision by Hearing Officer

   7.04.180   Hearing Procedures

   7.04.190   Judicial Action/Abatement

   7.04.200   Cost Recovery

7.04.010 Definitions.

As used in this Title, the following terms shall be defined as follows:

   A.   "A" Definitions.

      "Adequate Care” or "Care" means the responsible practice of good
animal husbandry, handling, production, management, confinement,
feeding, watering, protection, shelter, transportation, treatment,
grooming, the provision of veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering or impairment of health and, when necessary, euthanasia,
appropriate for the age, species, condition, size and type of the
animal.

      "Adequate Exercise" or "Exercise" means the opportunity for the
animal to sufficiently move to maintain normal muscle tone and mass for
the age, species, size and condition of the animal.

      "Adequate Feed" means access to, and the provision of, food which
is of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to maintain each animal in
good health; is accessible to each animal; is prepared so as to permit
ease of consumption for the age, species, condition, size and type of
each animal; is provided in a clean and sanitary manner; is placed so as
to minimize contamination by excrement and pests; and is provided at
suitable intervals for the species, age, and condition of the animal,
but at least once daily, except as prescribed by a veterinarian or as
dictated by naturally occurring states of hibernation or fasting normal
for the species.

      "Adequate Shelter" or "Shelter" means provision of, and access to,
shelter that is suitable for the species, age, condition, size, and type
of each animal; provides adequate space for each animal; is safe and
protects each animal from injury, rain, hail, direct sunlight, standing
water, the adverse effects of heat or cold, physical suffering, and
impairment of health; is properly cleaned; enables each animal to be
clean and dry, except when detrimental to the species; and for dogs and
cats, provides a solid surface, resting platform, pad, floor mat, or
similar device that is large enough for the animal to lie on in a normal
manner and can be maintained in a sanitary manner. Under this Title,
commercial kennels whose wire grid or slat floors do not protect the
animal's feet or toes from injury are not adequate shelter.

      "Adequate Space" means sufficient space to allow each animal to
(i) easily stand, sit, lie, turn about, and make all other normal body
movements in a comfortable, normal position for the animal and (ii)
interact safely with other animals in the enclosure. When an animal is
tethered, "adequate space" means a tether that permits the actions in
(i) and (ii) and is appropriate to the age and size of the animal
according to professionally accepted standards for the species; is
attached to the animal by a properly applied collar, halter, or harness
configured so as to protect the animal from injury and prevent the
animal or tether from becoming entangled with other objects or animals,
or from extending over an object or edge that could result in the
strangulation or injury of the animal; and is at least eight (8) feet in
length, except when the animal is being walked on a leash or is attached
by a tether to a lead line. When freedom of movement would endanger the
animal, temporarily and appropriately restricting movement of the animal
according to professionally accepted standards for the species is
considered provision of adequate space.

      "Adequate Water" means provision of, and access to, clean, fresh,
potable water of a drinkable temperature which is provided in a suitable
manner, in sufficient volume, and at suitable intervals, but at least
once every twelve hours, to maintain normal hydration for the age,
species, condition, size and type of each animal, except as prescribed
by a veterinarian or as dictated by naturally occurring states of
hibernation or fasting normal for the species; and is provided in clean,
durable receptacles which are accessible to each animal and are placed
so as to minimize contamination of the water by excrement and pests or
an alternative source of hydration consistent with generally accepted
husbandry practices.

      "Animal" means any vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, and
includes these categories: birds, fish, mammals, amphibians and
reptiles.

      "Animal Control Officer" or "Humane Officer" means any person
designated by the City as a law enforcement officer who is qualified to
perform such duties under the laws of the State of California, or a Code
Enforcement Officer, Peace Officer or any other person designated by the
City Manager with whom the City has contracted to oversee field animal
control operations, kennel and office operations.

      "Animal Menagerie" means any place where wild animals are kept or
maintained for private or commercial purposes, including places where
wild animals are boarded, trained or kept for hire.

      "Animal Shelter" means any facility operated by a humane society
or municipal agency or its authorized agents, excluding the San
Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department, for the purpose of impounding
animals under the authority of this Chapter or State law for care,
confinement, return to owner, adoption or euthanasia.

      "Assistance Dog" means a specially trained and licensed canine
assigned to a disabled person for the specific purpose of assisting the
disabled person. Assistance dogs include, but are not limited to, guide
dogs for the blind, hearing dogs, canine companions and pet- assisted
therapy dogs.

      "At Large" means any animal, other than a domestic cat or wild
animal in its established habitat, which is off the owner's premises and
which is not physically and continuously restrained by a person
physically and mentally capable of controlling the animal at all time by
means of a leash, chain, or other physical apparatus of sufficient
strength and length to prevent the animal from making unsolicited
contact with any person or any other animal, except dogs used for law
enforcement purposes or for herding and control of livestock when under
immediate command control. Any animal on the premises of the owner not
completely confined by a building, wall or fence of sufficient height,
strength, and construction to restrain the animal and prevent the animal
from escaping, or secured to the premises by a chain or leash of
sufficient strength to prevent the animal from escaping, and so arranged
that the animal will remain upon the premises when the leash or chain is
stretched to its full length shall be deemed "at large." The use of an
electric or invisible fence, or other similar device, is not sufficient
restraint.

      "Auction" means any place or facility where animals are regularly
bought, sold or traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in
this Chapter. This definition does not apply to individual sales of
animals by private owners.

   B.   "B" Definitions.

      "Birds" shall refer to those birds typically sold in local pet
stores and kept as household pets, such as canaries, parrots and other
birds of similar size and character.

      "Breeder" means any person, business or organization that is
recognized as a "breeder" under the laws of the State of California.

      "Breeding" means the production of offspring, whether such
offspring result from sexual activity or artificial insemination, and
whether such sexual activity was intentional or the result of improper
confinement.

   C.   "C" Definitions.

      "Canine Hybrid" means (1) any canine which has or had a pure wolf
or pure coyote as a parent or grandparent; or (2) an animal represented
by its owner to an Animal Control officer, law enforcement officer, or
to a veterinarian to be the offspring, cross, mix or hybrid of a wolf or
coyote within the preceding two generations; or (3) any animal which,
because of its pure wolf or pure coyote ancestry, cannot be vaccinated
against rabies.

      "Cattery" means any building, structure, enclosure or premises,
not including a commercial cattery and which are otherwise in accordance
with all applicable zoning regulations, whereupon, or within which, five
(5) or more cats, four (4) months of age or older, are kept or
maintained.

      "Circus" means a commercial variety show featuring animal acts for
public entertainment.

      "Commercial Animal Establishment" or “Commercial Kennel" or
"Commercial Cattery" means any pet shop, grooming shop, guard dog
auction, riding school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing
animal exhibition or boarding or breeding kennel or cattery open to the
general public. This definition does not apply to privately owned,
not-for-hire ranches.

      "Commercial Fertilizer Operation (CFO)" means the storage,
stockpiling, drying, mechanical processing, packing or stacking of
manure in substantial quantities.

      "Commercial Horticulture" means the growing of fruits, vegetables,
flowers and ornamental plants for sale.

      "Commercial Ranch" means a property used for the commercial
breeding, grazing, raising and/or training of animals.

      "Coop" means and includes any pen, coop or enclosure wherein live
fowl are kept and maintained.

      "Crowing Fowl" means and includes any male fowl capable of making
a sound peculiar to its species or type.

   D.   "D" Definitions.

      "Dangerous Animal" means an animal, except a dog assisting a
public safety officer engaged in law enforcement duties, which
demonstrates any or all of the following behavior:

      1.   An unprovoked attack that results in serious injury to, or
the death of, any person when such person is acting lawfully;

      2.   An unprovoked attack that results in the death of another
animal or livestock when the animal or livestock is off the property of
the owner of the attacking animal;

      3.   A second unprovoked attack within a thirty-six (36) month
period on a person that requires a defensive action by any person to
prevent bodily injury when the person is acting lawfully;

      4.   A second unprovoked attack within a thirty-six (36) month
period on another animal or livestock that results in serious injury
when the animal or livestock is off the property of the owner of the
attacking animal;

      5.   A second unprovoked attack within a thirty-six (36) month
period on any person that results in less than a serious injury when the
person is acting lawfully.

      "Domestic Animal" means any animal customarily kept by humans for
companionship and considered "pets," including, but not limited to,
dogs, cats, birds, rabbits, hamsters, potbellied pigs, guinea pigs,
mice, rats, iguanas and the like; and animals which have historically
and commonly been tamed for the use of man (e.g., horses, cows, dogs,
and sheep). Feral cats are not domestic animals.

   E.   "E" Definitions.

      "Emergency Veterinary Treatment" means veterinary treatment to
prevent or alleviate suffering, stabilize a life-threatening condition,
or to prevent further transmission or progression of disease.

      "Enclosure" means structure used to house or restrict animals from
running at large or harming themselves and should be of appropriate size
for the age, species and condition of the animal consistent with
generally accepted husbandry standards for the species.

      "Exotic Animal" means any species of animal not normally
considered domestic or livestock. For purposes of this definition,
"exotic animal" shall be defined and include those animals defined in
Fish & Game Code Section 2116 as "wild animals." This includes, but is
not limited to, the species listed in Fish & Game Code Section 2118.

   F.   "F" Definitions.

      "Fish" shall refer to those types of fish typically sold in local
pet stores and kept as household pets.

      "Fowl" means and includes male and female chicken, duck, goose,
seafowl, peacock, turkey and pheasant.

   G.   "G" Definitions.

      "Guard Dog" or "Security Dog" means any dog used for the purpose
of guard or security duty.

   H.   "H" Definitions.

      "Household Pet" means a small, tamed, domestic animal housed and
maintained inside a residence, including, but not limited to, birds,
fish, reptiles and rodents.

      "Housing facility" means any room, building, or area used to
contain a primary enclosure or enclosures.

      "Humane" means any action taken in consideration of, and with the
intent to provide for, the animal's behavioral and physical health and
well being.

   I.   "I" Definitions.

      "Impoundment" means the picking up of an animal by a duly
authorized person and bringing same into an animal shelter for
confinement, custody and disposition.

   J.   "J" Definitions.

   [Intentionally left blank]

   K.   "K" Definitions.

      "Kennel" means any building, structure, enclosure or premises, not
including a commercial kennel and which are otherwise in accordance with
all applicable zoning regulations, whereupon, or within which, five (5)
or more dogs, four (4) months of age or older, are kept or maintained.

   L.   "L" Definitions.

      "Livestock" means animals kept by humans that do not customarily
inhabit their owners' dwellings, including all domestic or domesticated
bovine animals (cattle type); equine animals (horse type); ovine animals
(sheep type); porcine animals (pig type); cervine animals (deer like);
caprine animals (goat type); ratite animals (ostrich type); enclosed
domesticated rabbits or hares raised for human food or fiber; or any
other individual animal specifically raised for food or fiber, and any
species of chickens, ducks, pigeons, geese, turkeys or other
domesticated fowl, but excludes companion animals.

   M.   "M" Definitions.

      "Manure" means animal excrement or livestock excreta. Manure does
not include waste ("paunch") from the alimentary canal of cows, horses,
sheep, goats, pigs or other animals.

      "Minor" means a person who is not of legal age, or under eighteen
(18) years old.

   N.   "N" Definitions.

   [Intentionally left blank]

   O.   "O" Definitions.

      "Owner" means any person who is the legal owner, keeper, harborer,
guardian, possessor, custodian, or has a propriety interest in harboring
or having care, charge, control, custody or possession of an animal.
Ownership is also established by a person registering as the owner on a
license or other legal document or by a person claiming ownership and
taking possession of an animal. An animal is deemed to be harbored if it
is fed or sheltered for five (5) or more consecutive days. “Person”
includes any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, trust and any
association of persons.

   P.   "P" Definitions.

      "Pit Bull" means any dog that is an American Pit Bull Terrier,
American Staffordshire Terrier, Staffordshire Bull Terrier, or any mixed
breed of dog which contains, as an element of its breeding, one of these
aforementioned breeds and exhibits the majority of physical traits of
any such breeds.

      "Pot-Bellied Pig" means a domesticated miniature Vietnamese,
Chinese or Asian pot-bellied pig not exceeding ninety (90) pounds in
weight and eighteen (18) inches in height (measured at the shoulder),
and characterized by a swayed back and straight tail.

      "Potentially Dangerous Animal" means an animal, except a dog
assisting a public safety officer engaged in law enforcement duties,
which demonstrates for the first time any or all of the following
behavior:

      1.   An unprovoked attack on a person that requires a defensive
action by any person to prevent bodily injury when the person is acting
lawfully;

      2.   An unprovoked attack on another animal or livestock that
results in serious injury when the animal or livestock is off the
property of the owner of the attacking animal;

      3.   An unprovoked attack on any person that results in less than
a serious injury when the person is acting lawfully;

      4.   Any unprovoked behavior that constitutes a physical threat of
bodily harm to any person when the person is off the property of the
owner of the animal.

      "Properly Cleaned" means that carcasses, debris, food, waste, and
excrement are removed from the yard, property, house and primary
enclosure with sufficient frequency to minimize the animal's contact
with the above-mentioned contaminants; that the primary enclosure is
sanitized with sufficient frequency to minimize odors, insects, and the
hazards of disease preventing the animals confined therein from being
directly or indirectly sprayed with the stream of water, or directly or
indirectly exposed to hazardous chemicals or disinfectants.

      "Public Nuisance" - Any animal or animals that unreasonably annoy
humans, endanger the life or health of other animals or persons or
substantially interfere with the rights of citizens, other than their
owners, to enjoyment of life or property. The term "public nuisance
animal" shall mean and include, but is not limited to, any animal that:

      1.   Is repeatedly found at large;

      2.   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;

      3.   Molests or intimidates pedestrians or passers by;

      4.   Chases vehicles;

      5.   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not
limited to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining or other
utterances causing unreasonable annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to
neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the animal
is kept or harbored;

      6.   Causes fouling of the air by odor, by unclean or unmaintained
enclosures and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to
neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the animal
is kept or harbored;

      7.   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings
where the animal is kept or harbored;

      8.   Is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or
welfare by virtue of the number and/or types of animals maintained or
attacks other domestic animals; or

      9.   Is an unspayed female in estrus left unattended so as to
attract stray males.

   Q.   "Q" Definitions.

   [Intentionally left blank]

   R.   "R" Definitions.

      "Reptiles" shall refer to small, non-venomous reptiles which are
thirty-six inches or less in length (measured from head to the tip of
the tail), and are typically sold in local pet stores and kept as
household pets.

      "Responsible Person" means owner, person or individual, over
eighteen (18) years of age, having control, custody, care, charge of or
living at dog or animal's residence.

      "Rodents" shall refer to those which are typically sold in local
pet stores and kept as household pets, such as guinea pigs, hamsters,
rats, mice and other rodents of similar size and character.

   S.   "S" Definitions.

      "Service Dog" - Any dog under the control of a public safety
officer in the performance of, or training for, public service.

      "Small Domestic Animal" means mice, rats, hamsters, guinea pigs,
snakes, tropical fish, canaries, parrots, parakeets and other similar
animals commonly sold in pet stores and kept as household pets.

      “Substantial Injury” means a substantial impairment of the
physical condition of a person or animal which requires professional
medical treatment, including, but not limited to, loss of consciousness;
concussion; bone fracture; protracted loss or impairment of function of
any bodily member or organ; muscle tears, disfiguring lacerations,
punctures, or a wound requiring multiple sutures; or any injury
requiring corrective or cosmetic surgery.

   T.   "T" Definitions.

   [Intentionally left blank]

   U.   "U" Definitions.

   [Intentionally left blank]

   V.   "V" Definitions.

   [Intentionally left blank]

   W.   "W" Definitions.

      "Weaned Age" means animals that are accustomed to food other than
mothers' milk. Fowl are considered to be weaned at two (2) months of
age.

      "Wild Animal" means any animal which may not be imported,
transported or possessed without first obtaining a California Department
of Fish and Game permit, as set forth in Chapter 14 of the California
Code of Regulations, Section 671, or its successor regulations. Any
wild, exotic, dangerous or venomous animal, including but not limited
to, mammals, fowl, fish or reptile, including those born or raised in
captivity, except the following: domestic dogs (excluding hybrids with
wolves, coyotes or jackals), domestic cats (excluding hybrids with
ocelots or margays), farm animals and horses, rodents and captive-bred
species of common cage birds.

   X.   "X" Definitions.

   [Intentionally left blank]

   Y.   "Y" Definitions.

   [Intentionally left blank]

   Z.   "Z" Definitions.

   [Intentionally left blank]

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.020 Mandatory Licensing.

   A.   Licensing Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
harbor or have custody of any dog over four (4) months of age within the
City without such dog having a current, valid license tag issued by the
City. Each dog shall have a current rabies vaccination as evidenced by a
valid rabies certificate issued by the veterinarian who performed the
vaccination as a requisite to licensing. A rabies vaccination
certificate shall not be required if the license is obtained at the time
the dog is vaccinated at a City sponsored low-cost clinic.

   B.   Licensing Guard/Security Dogs. While a dog is being used for
security purposes within the City, it must have an City dog license; and
the license tag must be securely fixed to the dog’s collar regardless of
where the owner resides and whether a license has been obtained for that
jurisdiction.

   C.   License Application. Written application for licenses, which
shall include the name and address of applicant, description of the
animal, the appropriate fee and rabies certificate issued by a licensed
veterinarian or anti-rabies clinic showing a current vaccination, shall
be made to the licensing authority.

   D.   Term of License. If not revoked, licenses for the keeping of
dogs shall be issued for a period of three (3) months or more, not to
exceed three (3) years or the expiration date of the current rabies
vaccination certificate.

   E.   Time of License Application. Application for a dog license must
be made within thirty (30) days after obtaining a dog or when the dog
reaches the age of four (4) months. This requirement does not apply to a
nonresident keeping a dog within the City for not longer than thirty
(30) days so long as a current license from another jurisdiction is
continuously attached to the dog.

   F.   Issuance of Tag. Upon acceptance of the license application and
fee, the licensing authority shall issue a durable tag, stamped with an
identifying number.

   G.   Tag Must be Worn. Dogs must wear identification tags or collars
at all times when off the premises of the owners.

   H.   Record of Tags. The licensing authority shall maintain a record
of the identifying numbers of all tags issued and shall make this record
available pursuant to the Government Code as a public record.

   I.   Tags and Vaccinations. The licensing period shall run
concurrently with the rabies vaccination certificate.

   J.   License Fees. License fees shall be established and amended by
resolution of the City Council as part of the City’s Fee Schedule. Each
application for a license shall be accompanied by a license fee as
specified in the City’s Fee Schedule, provided such license is obtained:

      1.   Within thirty (30) days of the expiration date of the current
license;

      2.   Within thirty (30) days after said dog attains the age of
four (4) months;

      3.   Within thirty (30) days after purchase or obtaining control,
care or custody of a dog which previously attained the age of four (4)
months and provided further that proof of recent acquisition as
indicated by the date of purchase receipt is shown at the time of
application; or

      4.   Within fifteen (15) days after the date of establishing
residency in Adelanto, if said dog has no current license from another
jurisdiction.

      5.   Within thirty (30) days of establishing residency if said dog
has a current vaccination and license from another jurisdiction. The
owner must transfer the dog license to the City of Adelanto.

   K.   Licensing Fee. The licensing fee shall be established by the
City Council to cover the reasonable cost to the City of administering
its licensing program, together with the reasonable cost of providing an
incentive for sterilization.

   L.   Use of License. No person may use any license for any animal
other than the animal for which it was issued.

   M.   Penalty Fee. Any person who obtains a license not in conformity
with any of the provisions of this Chapter shall pay a penalty fee as
specified in the Adelanto Fee Schedule, which shall be adopted by
resolution of the City Council, in addition to the regular license fee.

   N.   Renewal of License. Each Adelanto dog license shall be valid for
a period of one (1), two (2) or three (3) years from the date of
issuance, depending on the fee paid, and shall be renewed prior to
expiration or within a period of thirty (30) days after expiration. The
procedure for the renewal of such license shall be in the same manner as
the issuance of the original license.

   O.   Duplicate License Tag. When the original license tag is lost, a
duplicate tag shall be obtained upon submission to the Animal Control
Department such proof as may be required. The cost of each duplicate tag
shall be as specified in the Adelanto Fee Schedule.

   P.   Wearing of Tag. It shall be the responsibility of every City
resident who owns, harbors, cares for or has in custody a licensed dog,
to securely attach or fasten the license tag to the dog’s collar or
harness so that such tag is worn by the dog at all times except while
such dog remains indoors or in any enclosed yard or pen where the dog
resides.

   Q.   Falsification of License Tag. It shall be unlawful for any
person to place upon or attach to a dog any false, counterfeit or
unauthorized tag for the purpose of evading the provisions of this
Chapter.

   R.   Unlawful Use of Tag. It shall be unlawful to attach a license
tag on a dog to which said tag was not originally issued. It shall be
unlawful for an unauthorized person to remove from any dog, any collar
or harness or other device to which is attached an Adelanto license tag
for the current year or remove such tag therefrom.

   S.   Transfer of Ownership. If, during the licensing year, a licensed
dog in the City is sold or title to the dog is otherwise transferred to
a City resident, such new owner may apply to the City for a transfer of
such dog’s license and pay a transfer fee as specified in the Adelanto
Fee Schedule. Upon receipt of the application fee, the Animal Control
Department shall record the transfer of the license to the new dog
owner.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.030 Impoundment of Animals - Persons Charged with Enforcement.

   A.   Animal Control Officers, Humane Officers, Code Enforcement
Officers, Peace Officers, the City Manager and any person designated for
that purpose by the City Manager are authorized and empowered to, and
shall, enforce the provisions of this Title, and State and federal laws
and regulations authorizing such enforcement relating to the care,
control and treatment of animals, including, but not limited to the
following:

      1.   Capture, receive, take-up and impound:

         a.   Any dog or other animal found running at large in
violation of this Chapter or any law of the State of California;

         b.   Any dog or other animal which is molesting any person;

         c.   Any dog or other animal which is molesting or harassing
animals, birds or pets upon the premises of any person;

         d.   Any animal, including wild animals or birds, being kept or
maintained within a person’s premises in violation of this Chapter or of
any law of the State of California;

         e.   Stray, unwanted or abandoned animals;

         f.   Dogs or other animals which are unlicensed and/or
unvaccinated in violation of this Chapter or other applicable laws;

         g.   Animals delivered for disposition, after the owner has
paid the required fee and released all title and interest in the animal
by signing the form provided by the Animal Control Officer for this
purpose; or

         h.   Animals for which the owner or custodian is unable to care
because of imprisonment, illness or other preventing contingency, or in
cases in which the owner or custodian cannot be found;

      2.   Regularly and adequately feed, water and otherwise care for
all dogs or other animals impounded under the provisions of this Chapter
or to provide for such feeding and watering;

      3.   Receive, take-up and impound any sick or injured dog or other
animal whose owner is unknown or unidentified; to humanely destroy any
such injured dog or other animal, when, in the opinion of a licensed
veterinarian, such destruction is necessary and humane, and is performed
in compliance with Business & Professions Code section 4827; and to make
proper disposition of such animal. Should an injured or destroyed animal
be an identified animal, then the owner of said animal shall be
immediately notified of its injury or destruction;

      4.   Do and perform any other acts necessary to carry out the
provisions of this Title and of the laws of the State of California
relating to dogs or other animals.

   B.   If an Animal Control Officer has reasonable cause to believe
that any person has violated any of the provisions of this Title, or any
State laws which the Animal Control Officer is authorized to enforce,
relating to the care, control and treatment of animals, the Animal
Control Officer may apply the penalty provisions set forth in Sections
7.04.140 and 7.04.145 of this Chapter.

   C.   The Animal Control Officer having custody of any impounded dog
or other animal may, by humane methods, summarily destroy the same if:

      1.   The dog or other animal is suffering from any incurable or
contagious disease as certified to by a licensed veterinarian; or

      2.   The animal is suffering from a severe injury as certified to
by a licensed veterinarian; or

      3.   The animal is a newborn in need of maternal care and has been
impounded without its mother; or

      4.   It is an unlicensed "vicious dog or animal" as defined in
Section 7.06.020(B) and declared as such pursuant to Section 7.06.030 of
the Adelanto Municipal Code.

   D.   Any Animal Control Officer having in his custody any unlicensed,
impounded dog or other animal not suffering from any infectious or
communicable disease may, in accordance with the provisions of this
Title, release the same to any adult person who will pay the Shelter
fees and charges as specified in the City’s Fee Schedule, which shall be
adopted by resolution of the City Council.

   E.   All the provisions of this Chapter pertaining to impounded,
unlicensed dogs, except the licensing provisions thereof, shall apply to
impounded animals.

   F.   The Shelter keeper or Pound keeper or any duly authorized person
shall have the right to receive and dispose of dogs or other animals
delivered into his/her possession by the owners thereof and shall charge
a specified fee for each dog, cat, puppy, kitten or other animal
delivered into his/her custody.

   G.   When the breed of an unspayed or unneutered dog is at issue, the
Animal Control Officer shall determine whether such dog is a pit bull.
If the owner of the dog wishes to appeal the Animal Control Officer’s
determination that the dog is a pit bull, he or she may, within ten (10)
calendar days of the determination, request a hearing before the hearing
officer. The hearing shall be held in accordance with Sections 7.04.160
through 7.04.180 of this Chapter.

   H.   Any impounded animal which has not been redeemed or sold may be
disposed of by euthanasia in accordance with State and City laws.

   I.   Disposition of Impounded Animals.

      1.   An impounded dog or other animal may be redeemed in
accordance with the provisions of this Title, by payment of a specified
Shelter fee in addition to the daily charges and other charges, if any,
for each day the animal has been impounded.

      2.   Any dog over the age of four (4) months which has been
impounded shall not be released from the Shelter, unless it is first
licensed in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.

      3.   Any Animal Control Officer acting under the provisions of
this Chapter and impounding a licensed dog, shall give notice in person,
by phone or by mail to the last known address of the owner, of the
impounding of such dog. If such dog is not redeemed and owner or
possessor does not pay the fees required as specified in this Chapter
within ten (10) days after notice has been given, the Shelter or Animal
Control Department shall dispose of such dog in accordance with the
provisions of this Title.

   J.   Sterilization (Spay/Neuter) Requirements.

      1.   Cats - Spay/Neuter Requirements. No person owning or
otherwise having a cat over four (4) months of age in his/her care,
charge, control, custody or possession shall cause, permit or allow such
cat to be unconfined in or upon any public street, road, alley or other
public or private place, including the exterior yards of the animal
owner’s property, unless such cat is spayed or neutered. An Animal
Control Officer may seize or impound every cat found in violation of
this Section and shall require the owners or guardians of the cat to
either spay or neuter the cat within fifteen (15) days of such violation
or produce a certificate of sterilization proving that the cat is
already altered. Failure to comply with this Section will result in a
citation.

      2.   When a person is cited or a cat is impounded under this
Section, the owner of the cat, if known, shall be notified in writing
and given seven (7) calendar days to request a hearing held in
accordance with Sections 7.04.160 through 7.04.180 of this Chapter. The
decision of the hearing officer shall be final.

   K.   Impoundment - Challenge by Owner. If the owner of an animal
wishes to challenge an impoundment, the owner shall personally deliver
or mail a written request for a hearing before the Shelter supervisor.
The request must be received by the Shelter supervisor within four (4)
days of the impoundment. The Shelter supervisor shall review the
request, together with additional evidence presented at or before the
time of the hearing, and shall determine whether or not the impoundment
was proper. Unless a provision of this Chapter requires otherwise, if
the Shelter supervisor determines that the impoundment was improper, the
animal shall be immediately returned to its owner.

   L.   Mandatory Sterilization for Second Impoundment.

      1.   Any animal which is impounded by any agency within the City
two (2) or more times while under the same ownership shall be
microchipped and ordered spayed or neutered within fifteen (15) days of
being released to the owner (at the owner’s expense and at the
veterinarian of the owner’s choosing). The cost of the microchipping
shall be added to the redemption fee described in Subsection I. of this
Section. The owner of the animal shall provide written documentation
from the veterinarian performing the surgery to the Animal Control
Officer within seven (7) days of the surgery as verification that such
surgery occurred.

      2.   Any owner of an impounded animal subject to mandatory
sterilization under Subsection 1. of this Section may request, in
writing and within seven (7) calendar days following notice of the
second impoundment, a hearing to be conducted by the Shelter supervisor
or his/her designee. Such hearing shall be held within five (5) calendar
days of such request and shall determine whether good cause exists for
an exemption from the provisions of Subsection 1. herein. If no good
cause is established, then the animal shall be ordered spayed or
neutered.

      3.   Good cause for an exemption from mandatory sterilization
shall exist if the animal was at large due to an act of God, emergency,
or other mitigating factor not caused by the negligence of the owner or
other person in control of the animal, or upon presentation of
documentation from the animal’s veterinarian stating that a health
condition exists that would preclude such a surgery. The burden of proof
to establish good cause for an exemption shall be upon the owner and
shall be established by a preponderance of the evidence.

   M.   Sterilization Prior to Adoption. No unclaimed impounded dog or
cat shall be released for adoption without first being sterilized or
without written statement from a licensed veterinarian that it would be
detrimental to the animal’s health to have it sterilized at this time. A
sterilization fee established by the City shall be collected at the time
of adoption.

   N.   Record of Impounded Animals. The Shelter supervisor, or any
other duly authorized person, shall keep a record of all animals
impounded by him/her which shall show:

      1.   Date of impoundment.

      2.   License tag number, if any.

      3.   Complete description of animal.

      4.   Date and manner of its disposal.

      5.   If redeemed or sold, the name and address of the person by
whom redeemed or purchased, the amount of all fees and other moneys
received or collected and the disposition thereof.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.040 Disposition of Dead Animals.

   A.   When any dog or other animal or fowl owned by, or in the custody
or control of any person, or found in any person’s private property
dies, such person shall, within twenty-four (24) hours, provide for the
burial, incineration or other disposition of the body of such dead
animal or fowl in a safe and sanitary manner.

   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of the body of
such dead animal or fowl in or on any public or private property, other
than his own, without proper authorization from the City.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.050 Animal Waste.

   A.   No owner and/or responsible person in charge of the animal shall
permit such animal to defecate on any public sidewalk, street,
improvement, park, or other public place, or on any private property
without the consent of the owner of such private property, unless such
owner and/or responsible person in charge of the animal removes any such
defecation to a proper trash receptacle.

   B.   When the Animal Control supervisor or his/her enforcement
officer(s) and/or inspector(s) determine that the owner and/or
responsible person in charge of the animal has violated subsection (a)
of this Section, such animal control personnel are authorized to:

      1.   Direct the owner and/or responsible person in charge of the
animal for the animal to immediately remove and dispose of the
defecation to a proper trash receptacle;

      2.   Issue a written notice to the owner and/or responsible person
in charge of the animal that if, within a twelve (12) month period
following the initial response, animal control personnel are again
required to respond to the same owner and/or responsible person in
charge of the animal for violating subsection (a) of this Section, a
criminal and/or administrative citation will be issued pursuant to
Chapters 1.20 and 7.04 of this Code; and

      3.   Issue criminal and/or administrative citations to the owner
and/or responsible person in charge of the animal for recurrent
violations of subsection (a) of this Section within a twelve (12) month
period.

   C.   No person owning or occupying property where an animal is kept
shall maintain such property in an unsanitary condition. An accumulation
of uneaten food, feces or other matter that emits an offensive odor or
encourages insect breeding shall constitute prima facie evidence of an
unsanitary condition. This provision shall not prohibit storage of
uneaten food, feces or other matter in a closed container prior to
disposal.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.060 Control of Animals.

   A.   No owner and/or responsible person in charge of an animal shall
permit such animal to stray or run at large upon any public street,
sidewalk, school ground, public park, playground, place of public
assembly or any other public place, or any unenclosed private lot or
other unenclosed private place, or upon any enclosed private place or
property without the consent of the owner or person in control thereof.
Parkways comprising the area between the street and sidewalk are
included as private property for purposes of this Chapter.

   B.   Any person who finds any animal which has strayed or is running
at large upon his own property or any other place contrary to the
provisions of this Chapter, may take possession of and hold same,
provided, however, that he shall notify the Animal Control Department
that he has such animal in his possession within twenty-four (24) hours
after securing possession thereof, and give such Animal Control Officer
full information in regard to the animal, including a complete
description of such animal and license number, if any, and surrender the
same to the Animal Control Officer or Department upon demand.

   C.   No person in the City may lawfully bring his dog out of his
premises or property unless:

      1.   Said dog is restrained by a substantial leash not exceeding
six (6) feet in length, and the person is competent to restrain such
dog; or

      2.   Said dog is properly restrained and enclosed in a car, cage
or similar enclosure; or

      3.   Said dog is used for law enforcement purposes or for herding
and control of livestock when under immediate command control.

   D.   Any dog found running at large, running loose or unrestrained
may be impounded by the Animal Control Officer for a period of
seventy-two (72) hours. Any unclaimed dogs shall then be disposed of in
accordance with Section 7.04.030(H).

   E.   In addition to any penalty imposed as a result of any violation
of this Section, there shall be an apprehension fee for all impounded
dogs, as set forth in the City's Fee Schedule, which apprehension fee
shall be collected prior to release of the impounded dog. Said
apprehension fee shall include a penalty amount for second and
subsequent apprehensions within any twelve (12) month period.

   F.   Every person who keeps an animal confined in an enclosed area
shall provide it with an adequate exercise area. If the animal is
restricted by a leash, rope, or chain, the leash, rope, or chain shall
be affixed in such a manner that it will prevent the animal from
becoming entangled or injured and permit the animal's access to adequate
shelter, feed, space and water. Violation of this section constitutes a
misdemeanor. This section shall not apply to an animal which is in
transit, in a vehicle, or in the immediate control of a person.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.070 Animal Noise.

   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or allow to be kept,
or permit any animal to remain upon the premises under the control of
such person, when such animal habitually barks, whines, crows or makes
loud or unusual noises in such a manner as to disturb the peace and
quiet of the neighbors surrounding or in the vicinity of such premises,
or whose barking, whining, crowing or other sound interferes with any
person of ordinary sensitivity in the reasonable and comfortable
enjoyment of life and property. The Animal Control Officer shall
promptly investigate or cause to be investigated all complaints that
this Section is being violated if such complaints are in writing and
contain the signature of the complainant.

   B.   When the Animal Control Supervisor or his/her enforcement
officer(s) and/or inspector(s) determine that an owner and/or
responsible person in charge of the animal has violated subsection A. of
this Section, such animal control personnel are authorized to:

      1.   Direct the owner and/or responsible person in charge of the
animal to immediately terminate the actions of the animal that are
causing the loud noise;

      2.   Issue a written notice to the owner and/or responsible person
in charge of the animal that if, within a twelve (12) month period
following the initial response, animal control personnel are again
required to respond to the same person for violating Section 7.04.070 of
this Code a criminal and/or administrative citation will be issued
pursuant to Chapters 1.20 and 7.04 of this Code; and

      3.   Issue criminal and/or administrative citations to the owner
and/or responsible person in charge of the animal for recurrent
violations of subsection A. of this Section within a twelve (12) month
period.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.080 Selling Animals.

No person shall sell, offer or display for sale, barter, or give any
live animal to any person on any public street or other public place
within the City other than a person maintaining a fixed place of
business wherein such animals are sold.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.085   Breeding Prohibited.

No person, as principal, agent, employee or otherwise, shall establish
or maintain any kennel for breeding purposes, or keep any dog, cat or
other animal for breeding purposes with the intent to sell any offspring
resulting therefrom, at any place within the City. "Breeding" shall be
deemed to have occurred upon the production of offspring, whether such
offspring result from sexual activity or artificial insemination, and
whether such sexual activity was intentional or the result of improper
confinement.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.090 Wild, Exotic or Non-domestic Animals in Captivity.

   A.   No person shall have, keep, maintain, breed, sell, trade or let
for hire, any wild, exotic, dangerous or non-domestic animal without
first applying to and receiving special authorization from the State of
California, Department of Fish and Game. The keeping or maintenance of
such animals shall also conform to the City's Development Code and
Municipal Code.

   B.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to licensed and
permitted circuses, carnivals, zoos or other collections of wild animals
under jurisdiction of the City, State or Federal government.

   C.   Exotic Animal Keeping. Animals kept as livestock or pets that
are not otherwise addressed by the animal keeping provisions of this
Title shall be deemed an "exotic animal." The keeping of exotic
livestock or pets shall comply with the following:

      1.   Exotic animal livestock shall only be permitted in the R1-.5
and DL zones areas;

      2.   The keeping of exotic pets shall be subject to the following
limitations:

         a.   Licensing Requirements. Exotic pets shall be licensed in
the same manner as dogs, pursuant to the provisions of Title 7 of this
Code.

         b.   Veterinary Certification. Prior to licensing of exotic
pets, veterinary certification shall be required, stating whether or not
the animal is spayed/neutered, that the animal is in good health and has
received all necessary vaccinations, and the height and weight of the
animal.

         c.   Outdoor Confinement. Exotic pets shall be provided with a
fenced yard designed to assure confinement of the animal when kept out
of doors. Such yard areas must be kept in a clean, safe and odor-free
condition.

         d.   Leash Requirement. While on the street, sidewalk or other
public place, exotic pets shall be restrained by a harness and leash not
longer than six feet in length, or other suitable restraint as deemed
appropriate by the Animal Control Supervisor.

   D.   For the purposes of these provisions, the term "exotic pet"
shall include, but not be limited to, the following animals:

      1.   Pot-bellied pigs, provided that there shall be no more than
one pot-bellied pig on any lot or parcel, the animal shall be spayed or
neutered, and all male potbellied pigs two (2) years of age or older
shall have its tusks removed;

      2.   Any other such animal not specifically addressed by this
Title that, in the opinion of the Animal Control Supervisor, will not
pose a risk to the public health, safety or general welfare, or create a
public nuisance by reason of generating excessive noise or odor.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.095   Livestock.

   A.   Livestock Generally.

      1.   Running at Large—Distance from Habitation. No person, as
owner or the one in control of any ox, steer, bull, cow, heifer, calf,
horse, mare, filly, gelding, stallion, colt, jack, jenny, mule, sheep,
goat, or hog, shall permit the same, of any thereof, to run at large or
pasture, herd, stake, tie or stable any thereof in any of the streets,
avenues, places, lanes, alleys, parks, or other public places in the
City, or tie, stake, pasture, stable, or otherwise keep any thereof upon
any private property in the City so as to permit any thereof to approach
nearer than one hundred (100) feet to any building used or occupied or
designed for use and occupancy as a residence for human habitation other
than such building so occupied by the person owning or having the
control of any such animal, and other than such building, the occupant
of which continues his or her consent to the closer approach of any such
animal. The keeping of livestock shall only be permitted in the R1-.5
and DL zoned areas.

      2.   Driving in Street. No person, as principal, agent, employee
or otherwise, shall drive or conduct along any street, avenue, place,
lane, alley, park or other public place any ox, steer, bull, cow,
heifer, calf, horse, mare, filly, gelding, stallion, colt, jack, jenny,
mule, sheep, goat or hog without having such animal or animals enclosed
in some conveyance or tied or otherwise attached to some person or
vehicle in such manner that such animal or animals cannot run at large
or enter upon private property.

      3.   Herding on Unenclosed Private Property. No person, as
principal, agent, employee, or otherwise, shall herd any of the animals
mentioned in this chapter on any unenclosed private property.

      4.   Authority to Apprehend Livestock—Fees.

         a.   Any livestock other than bovine animals found running at
large in the City shall be apprehended by an Animal Control Officer. The
owner of any apprehended livestock shall pay apprehension fees and daily
board and care fees prior to recovering the livestock from the Animal
Control Officer. Apprehension fees and board and care fees shall be set
by Resolution of the Mayor and City Council. Unclaimed livestock may be
disposed of by a public sale by sealed bids. The livestock shall be sold
to the highest bidder. The Animal Control Supervisor shall determine
minimum bid amounts. Unclaimed livestock not disposed of by a public
sale by sealed bids may be destroyed after seven (7) calendar days.

         b.   Any bovine animal found running at large in the City shall
be apprehended by the Animal Control Officer. Within five (5) days of
the apprehension, the owner of any apprehended bovine animal shall pay
apprehension fees and daily board and care fees prior to recovering the
bovine animal from Animal Care & Control. Apprehension fees and board
and care fees shall be set by Resolution of the Mayor and City Council.

         c.   Within five (5) days from the date of apprehension, the
Animal Control Supervisor shall notify the State Director of Food and
Agriculture of any unclaimed bovine animal, horse, mule, or burro, and
shall turn over to the State Director of Food and Agriculture any bovine
animal, pursuant to the provisions of Food and Agricultural Code §§
17001, et seq.

      5.   Minimum Distance from Domestic Water Well. All residential
land uses, activities and facilities shall comply with the requirement
that animals shall be kept a minimum of one hundred (100) feet from any
domestic water well.

      6.   Ranches. Property used for the commercial breeding, grazing,
raising and/or training of animals shall be deemed a "commercial ranch"
and shall comply with the following:

         a.   The site shall contain a minimum of five (5) acres.

         b.   Where the ranch abuts a residentially zoned property, the
site shall be screened from view by a six (6) foot high decorative
masonry block wall or other similar view obstructing fence or wall, as
approved by the Animal Control Supervisor.

      7.   Violations. A violation of any of the terms or provisions of
this section shall be a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be
punishable by a criminal and/or administrative citation will be issued
pursuant to Chapters 1.20 and 7.04 of this Code.

   B.   Horses.

      1.   Stabling of Uncastrated Stallions or Jacks. It is unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation to stable, pasture or keep, or cause
to be stabled, pastured or kept, within fifty feet of any property line,
any uncastrated stallions or jacks. Any uncastrated stallions or jacks
so kept shall be confined by an enclosure with a minimum height of six
(6) feet that is constructed in such a manner as to prevent the animal's
escape.

      2.   Removal of Manure. Manure shall be removed from stables or
premises every three (3) days or shall be spread at a place which has an
area of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or more in a sanitary
manner approved by the San Bernardino County Director of the Department
of Public Health (hereinafter referred to as "Health Officer"), his or
her designated deputy, or any City employee designated by the Mayor and
approved by the Health Officer, or shall be maintained in an approved
moisture and fly-proof manner. It shall not be kept within fifty (50)
feet of any adjoining property line.

      3.   Prohibition of Manure Storage Upon the Premises Where Manure
is Produced.

         a.   No person, firm, corporation, including a CFO, shall store
manure in piles, stacks or heaps, for more than one hundred twenty (120)
days unless prior written approval is obtained from Animal Care &
Control. Requests for time extension shall be made in writing to Animal
Care & Control and state why an extended period is necessary and the
number of days requested.

         b.   In responding to such requests, Animal Care & Control
shall balance the potential hardship to the public and neighboring
properties in granting an extension, with the potential hardship to the
petitioner in complying with the one hundred twenty (120) day rule.

      4.   Registration of Horses. Each person, firm or corporation who
stables, pastures or keeps, or causes or permits the stabling, pasturing
or keeping of, any equine in the City shall register with the Department
of Animal Care & Control, and shall provide data concerning the number
of equines, the location of such equines and such other relevant
information as said Department may require.

   C.   Hogs.

      1.   Maintenance. All places where garbage is fed to hogs shall be
maintained in a sanitary condition and in accordance with the provisions
hereof.

      2.   Feeding Floors. All garbage fed to hogs shall be upon feeding
floors, which feeding floors must be of concrete and so constructed as
to permit controlled drainage; such drainage must be to the outside of
the pens and not accessible to hogs and must be disposed of in a manner
not to create a nuisance. The surface of all feeding floors must be
maintained smooth enough to permit efficient cleaning. All feeding
floors must have all refuse, garbage, and manure removed at least once
daily, after which they must be flushed with water and drained; except,
that feeding floors in open lots where brood sows or young shoats only
are kept, will be considered as cleaned when they are entirely dry after
sweeping.

      3.   Storage Bins. No vat, bin, or other receptacle for the
storage of garbage shall be maintained unless the entire receptacle is
above the level of the ground and watertight and so equipped that the
same may be washed, scrubbed and drained and all such receptacles must
have all garbage removed and be thoroughly washed and cleaned at least
once each day when in use.

      4.   Garbage in Pens. No garbage shall be left in any hog pen or
in the vicinity of any hog pen longer than from the day it is received
or fed until the next day. No refuse garbage shall be left in any such
pen longer than from the day it is received until the next day.

      5.   Water Troughs. All water troughs for the watering of hogs
must be constructed in such manner and so covered as to permit hogs to
drink, but to prevent as far as possible, the entry of other than their
heads into the water trough. All water troughs must be kept clean and
provided with clean water. All water troughs must be connected with
efficient drainage and must not be permitted to overflow, except such
water troughs as may be located in open lots, where brood sows or young
shoats only are maintained. The surface for a radius of at least six (6)
feet from all such water troughs must be of concrete or other mire proof
material.

      6.   Hog Wallows. No hog wallows or mire will be permitted in any
hog pen or lot, except drain-equipped concrete walls, upon which must be
maintained a floating surface of at least one-half (½) inch heavy oil or
water in which must be contained a proper percentage of approved
disinfectant. All such concrete wallows must have their contents removed
and be cleaned frequently enough to maintain clean material in them.
Hogs may have access to running streams of water, provided no wallows
are maintained adjacent to such streams; and further provided that such
access to streams by hogs will not create a menace to public health.

      7.   Floors. Floors of all houses where hogs may enter, must be of
concrete or watertight boarding and must be maintained in a clean
condition. The use of clean bedding upon such floors will be permitted.

      8.   Dead Animals and Animal Refuse. Dead animals or animal
refuse, other than garbage as hereinbefore defined, shall not be fed to
hogs unless first sterilized by heat.

   D.   Fowl.

      1.   Distance from Dwelling. No person shall keep or maintain any
live fowl within the City less than fifty (50) feet from any
single-family or two-family dwelling or less than one hundred (100) feet
from any hotel or dwelling occupied by, or designed for the occupancy of
three (3) or more families. The keeping of fowl shall only be permitted
in the R1-.5 and DL zoned areas.

      2.   Dealers Exempt. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
deemed to prohibit the keeping of fowl by regularly licensed dealers for
the purpose of sale at their respective places of business. Such animals
shall be kept and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and such
dealers shall conform to and abide by the rules and regulations of the
health department with reference to the keeping of such animals on the
premises of such dealers.

      3.   Enclosure Sanitation. Wherever live fowl are permitted to be
kept or maintained in the City, no person, so keeping or maintaining
such fowl, shall fail at any time to keep the coops, pens or yards
wherein such fowl are enclosed in a clean and sanitary condition nor
shall fail to remove the manure or other debris from such enclosures
daily. No person shall fail to conform to and abide by the rules and
regulations of the health department with reference to the keeping of
such fowl in such enclosures.

      4.   Domestic Fowl at Large. It is unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation having custody or control of any domestic bird or fowl to
permit such bird or fowl to be present upon any public street, sidewalk,
school ground, public park, playground or any public place, or any
unenclosed private property not owned or lawfully possessed by such
person, or upon any private property without the consent of the owner or
lawful possessor thereof.

      5.   Impoundment.

         a.   Food and Water. No person shall impound any live fowl
unless provision is made by such person for the proper feeding and the
furnishing of water to such fowl at intervals not longer than twelve
(12) hours apart.

         b.   Coop Size. No person shall impound any live fowl in a coop
which is less than twice as large in floor space or standing room as the
total size of all live fowl which may be impounded therein, and which is
not sufficiently high as to permit each fowl impounded therein to stand
in a natural erect position.

      6.   Wing Locking Prohibited. No person handling live fowl shall
lock the wings of such fowl.

      7.   Artificial Coloring Prohibited.

         a.   No person, by means of any application to or upon the
exterior portion thereof or in any other manner, shall dye, artificially
color or alter or otherwise change the natural color of any live fowl.

         b.   No person shall sell, offer or display for sale, barter or
give to any person any live fowl, the natural color of which animal has
been changed by dyeing, coloring, or any other artificial manner.

         c.   No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter or give away
any chick, duckling, or other fowl under four (4) weeks of age, as pets,
toys, premiums or novelties.

         d.   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the
display or sale of chicks, ducklings or other fowl in proper facilities
by dealers, hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of selling the
same to be raised for food purposes.

   E.   Goats.

      1.   Distance From Dwelling. No person shall keep or maintain any
live goat in the City within one hundred (100) feet of any residence or
place of habitation. The keeping of goats shall only be permitted in the
R1-.5 and DL zoned areas.

      2.   Enclosure Sanitation. Wherever live goats are permitted to be
kept or maintained in the City, no person so keeping or maintaining such
goats shall fail at any time to keep the pens, hutches, spaces or other
enclosures wherein such goats are enclosed in a clean and sanitary
condition or fail to remove the manure or other debris from such
enclosures daily. No person shall fail to conform to and abide by the
rules and regulations of the health department with reference to the
keeping of such goats in such enclosures.

      3.   Running at Large Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation having custody or control of any goat to permit such
goat to be present upon any public street, sidewalk, school ground,
public park, playground or any public place, or any unenclosed private
property not owned or lawfully possessed by such person, or upon any
private property without the consent of the owner or lawful possessor
thereof.

   F.   Rabbits.

      1.   Artificial Coloring Prohibited.

         a.   No person, by means of any application to or upon the
exterior portion thereof or in any other manner, shall dye, artificially
color or alter or otherwise change the natural color of any live rabbit.

         b.   No person shall sell, offer or display for sale, barter or
give to any person any live rabbit, the natural color of which animal
has been changed by dyeing, coloring, or any other artificial manner.

         c.   No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter or give away
any rabbit under two (2) months of age, as pets, toys, premiums or
novelties.

         d.   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the
display or sale of rabbits in proper facilities by dealers, hatcheries
or stores engaged in the business of selling the same to be raised for
food purposes.

      2.   Enclosure Sanitation. Wherever live rabbits are permitted to
be kept or maintained in the City, no person so keeping or maintaining
such rabbits shall fail at any time to keep the pens, hutches, spaces or
other enclosures wherein such rabbits are enclosed in a clean and
sanitary condition or fail to remove the manure or other debris from
such enclosures daily. No person shall fail to conform to and abide by
the rules and regulations of the health department with reference to the
keeping of such rabbits in such enclosures.

      3.   Running at Large Prohibited. No person, firm or corporation
having custody or control of any rabbit may permit such rabbit to be
present or to run at large upon any public street, sidewalk, school
ground, public park, playground or any public place, or any unenclosed
private property not owned or lawfully possessed by such person, or upon
any private property without the consent of the owner or lawful
possessor thereof.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.100 Annual Permit/Business License.

No person shall, within the City, conduct or operate any kennel, pet
shop, pet grooming parlor, public aquarium, game bird farm, petting zoo,
wild animal breeding or boarding facility, animal menagerie or other
commercial animal facility without first obtaining an annual permit or
license under this Section and business license from the City as
required by the Municipal Code. Any such establishment shall also
conform to the City zoning and Development Codes and all other
applicable City ordinances.

   A.   Application for a License to Operate. An application for a
license to operate a kennel, pet shop, pet grooming parlor, public
aquarium, game bird farm, petting zoo, wild animal breeding or boarding
facility, animal menagerie or other commercial animal facility shall be
made on a form provided by the City.

   B.   General Regulations. Every person within the City who owns,
conducts, manages or operates any animal establishment for which a
license is required by this Chapter shall comply with each of the
following conditions:

      1.   Housing facilities for animals shall be structurally sound
and shall be maintained in good repair to protect animals from injury
and restrict entrance of other animals;

      2.   All animals and all animal buildings or enclosures shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition;

      3.   All animals shall be supplied with sufficient good wholesome
food and water as often as the feeding habits of the respective animals
require and adequate shelter from the elements;

      4.   Animal buildings and enclosures shall be so constructed and
maintained as to prevent the escape of animals;

      5.   All reasonable precautions shall be taken to protect the
public from the animals and animals from the public;

      6.   Every building or enclosure wherein animals are maintained
shall be properly ventilated to prevent drafts and to remove odors;
heating and cooling shall be provided as required according to physical
needs of the animals;

      7.   All animal rooms, cages and runs shall be of sufficient size
to provide adequate and proper housing for animals kept therein;

      8.   All animal runs shall be of approved construction and shall
be provided with adequate waste and manure disposal and for drainage
into an approved sewer or individual sewer disposal installation;

      9.   Every precaution shall be taken to avoid the production of
nuisances and any hazard to the public health as a result of the
presence of wild, dangerous and/or exotic animals;

      10.   Every violation of applicable regulation shall be corrected
within a reasonable time to be specified by the Animal Control Officer.

      11.   Failure of the applicant for said license to comply with any
of the foregoing conditions shall be deemed just cause for the denial of
any license, whether original or renewal.

   C.   Expiration of License. Any license issued under this Chapter
shall expire at the end of three (3) years or less, depending on the fee
paid.

   D.   Renewal of License. The procedure for the renewal of any license
shall be subject to the same conditions and shall be done in the same
manner as the issuance of an original license.

   E.   Inspection. The Animal Control Officer shall have the authority
to enter upon any area or premises at any reasonable time to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter.

   F.   Revocation of License or Animal Control Permit.

      1.   The Animal Control Officer may revoke any license or Animal
Control Permit issued pursuant to this Chapter, whenever he determines
from an inspection or substantiated complaints that any animal
establishment fails to meet all conditions contained in this Chapter or
for any other violation of applicable regulations.

      2.   Any revocation of a license or Animal Control Permit shall be
effective until all conditions of this Chapter have been met and
complied with to the satisfaction of the Animal Control Officer and
written notice of this fact has been given to the licensee. Upon receipt
of notice of compliance, the license or Animal Control Permit shall be
deemed in full force and in effect for the remainder of the original
term for which it was issued.

   G.   Licenses or Animal Control Permits. Pursuant to this Chapter,
licenses and Animal Control Permits shall not be transferable except
when original property including animal establishment within such
property is sold by owner to another party and provided further that
such animal establishment shall remain within the confines of the
original property.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.110 Enforcement.

   A.   In accordance with Section 836.5 of the California Penal Code,
the civil and criminal provisions of this Chapter shall be enforced by
those persons or agencies designated by municipal authority. It shall be
a violation of this Chapter to interfere with the Animal Control Officer
in the performance of his duties.

   B.   In addition to those City employees so designated in Chapter
2.16 of the Municipal Code, the City Council has designated and
authorized employees of any public pound, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals or humane society, who have qualified as humane
officers pursuant to Section 14502 of the Corporations Code, and which
pound or societies have contracted with the City to provide animal care,
control or protection services, to issue notices to appear in court
pursuant to Chapter 5C (commencing with Section 853.5) of Title 3 of
Part 2 of the Penal Code for violations of State or local animal control
laws. Except where expressly authorized by State law, said employees are
not authorized to take any person into custody even though the person to
whom the notice is delivered does not give his or her written promise to
appear in court. The authority of said employees hereunder is limited
only to the jurisdiction of the City.

   C.   The City Council has further confirmed, determined and elected
(where and to the extent, if any, prescribed or required by law) to
direct, authorize and allow its staff and relevant entities/agencies
with which it contracts, under general direction of the City Manager, to
appropriately exercise their discretion to enforce all applicable State
and local laws relating to the control, care and/or treatment of
animals.

   D.   The City Council has further expressed its intent, without
invalidating or replacing other provisions of this Title 7, to permit
the City’s enforcement staff and relevant entities/agencies with which
the City contracts to have the discretion to enforce all State and local
laws pertaining to animal control, care and treatment, subject to any
limitations imposed by law or by the Constitution of the State of
California, by recognizing all applicable laws, and future amendments
thereto, pertaining to animal control, care and treatment.

   E.   Interference with Officers. No person shall conceal or attempt
to conceal, remove/retrieve or attempt to remove/retrieve any animal
regulated pursuant to Title 7 from the Animal Control Supervisor, or
from any other officer authorized to enforce any of the provisions of
this Title 7, while engaged in the capture or in conveying to the animal
shelter any such animal. No person shall interfere in any manner with
said animal control officers in the performance of any duty incident to
their office, or conceal or attempt to conceal, remove/retrieve or
attempt to remove/retrieve, any animal which has been impounded by said
animal control officers in any manner. In addition, it shall be unlawful
to remove, damage, or otherwise tamper with any traps, equipment or
animal control vehicles belonging to the City.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.120 Animal Limitations.

   A.   All animal keeping regulations and animal densities are subject
to the limitations shown in Table 7.04.120.A, with the following
exceptions: Any dog used for security purposes shall be allowed within
the C (General Commercial), CR (Commercial Restricted), ADD (Airport
Development District), LM (light Manufacturing) and
MI (Manufacturing/Industrial) zone districts so long as it is licensed
pursuant to Section 7.04.020.B.

Table 7.04.120.A

DISTRICT

TYPE OF USE

DL-5, DL-9

DL-2.5

R1-.5

R1, AP, MHP, MHS

R3-8

DISTRICT

TYPE OF USE

DL-5, DL-9

DL-2.5

R1-.5

R1, AP, MHP, MHS

R3-8

1.   4-H or FFA animal raising and/or keeping

P

P

P

-

-

2.   Commercial horticulture1

P

P

P

-

-

3.   Animal Hospital

CUP

-

-

-

4.   Bee Hives

1 hive per 13500 sf

-

-

-

5.   Commercial Equestrian Stables and Arenas

P

P

-

-

-

6.   Dogs and cats as follows:

Up to 2 dogs or 2 cats, or any combination thereof, not to exceed a
combined total of two (2) with a maximum weight of 25 pounds each

-

-

-

-

P

Up to 3 dogs or 3 cats, not to exceed a combined total of three (3)

-

-

P

P

-

Up to 4 dogs and 4 cats, not to exceed a combined total of eight (8)

P

P

-

-

-

7.   Exotic Animals

CUP

CUP, 2 max

-

-

8.   Exotic Birds, except peafowl are allowed

CUP

CUP, 2 max

-

-

9.   Farm cattle and other bovine

1 per 9000 sf

1 per lot

-

-

10.   Horses and other equine

1 per 9000 sf

-

-

11.   Llamas and alpaca

1 per 4500 sf

1 per 9000 sf

1 per lot

-

-

12.   Kennels, commercial and non-commercial

CUP

-

-

-

13.   Catteries, commercial and non-commercial

CUP

-

-

-

 

DISTRICT

TYPE OF USE

DL-5, DL-9

DL-2.5

R1-.5

R1, AP, MHP, MHS

R3-8

DISTRICT

TYPE OF USE

DL-5, DL-9

DL-2.5

R1-.5

R1, AP, MHP, MHS

R3-8

14.   Ostriches, emus, rheas, kiwis or other ratite

1 per 9000 sf

-

-

-

15.   Pigs or other swine

P

1 per 9000 sf

-

-

-

16.   Poultry and other fowl (including pigeons) caged/fenced outside

P

1 per 1800 sf

5 max +1 male

-

-

17.   Rabbits

P

1 per 1800 sf

Total 6

-

18.   Sale of agriculture products

P

P

-

-

-

19.   Sheep, goats and other bovine

1 per 3000 sf

1 per 4500 sf

2 per lot

-

-

20.   Small domestic animals kept as household pets

P

P

P

P

P

21.   Apiaries

P

P

-

-

-

 

1   These uses are permitted subject to compliance with the provisions
of Chapter 17.95, Home Occupations.

   B.   Offspring. The offspring born of such animals which increases
the total number upon the premises beyond the numbers permitted shall be
removed from the premises no later than thirty (30) days from the wean
date. All fowl shall be removed by three (3) months of age, subject to a
land use permit from the City.

[Ord. No. 495, 5/12/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.125 Commercial Kennels.

   A.   Requirement of a License. Every person, firm or corporation
engaged in operating, control or management of a commercial kennel as
herein defined shall obtain a license from the Animal Control
Supervisor, and a land use permit from the City.

   B.   Regulation.

      1.   All dogs owned by, under the control of, or in possession of
a commercial kennel operator, shall be subject to the provisions of this
Chapter upon attaining the age of four (4) months. The Animal Control
Officer shall have the power, upon the giving of ten (10) days notice by
United States mail to any licensee under this Chapter and an opportunity
to be heard, to revoke any license granted to a commercial kennel
operator for violation of this Chapter.

      2.   Boarded dogs in commercial kennels shall be vaccinated and
licensed in name of owner. Failure to comply with this requirement shall
be considered a violation of this Chapter by the dog owner.

   C.   Construction.

      1.   Adequate housing shall be provided for the protection of dogs
from the elements.

      2.   Commercial kennel runs shall be effectively enclosed by
suitable fencing such as chain link, smooth concrete block or other
suitable fencing material. The exterior area of the premises shall be
completely fenced or otherwise enclosed.

      3.   Outside runs or properly constructed indoor runs shall be
provided in all commercial kennels.

         a.   Boarding commercial kennel runs shall be constructed of
concrete or other suitable type nonporous material. The floors shall
slope one-fourth (¼) inch per foot to a drain or to a drain way. All
such drains shall be properly plumbed, trapped and vented, and shall be
connected to an approved underground disposal system which shall consist
of a septic tank and seepage pit or leaching line as required by the
Health Department. Adequate ventilation must be provided for commercial
kennels with indoor runs.

         b.   Breeding commercial kennel outdoor runs may be constructed
of four (4) inch minimum thickness of pea gravel or other suitable
aggregate. Indoor runs must be constructed as provided in Subsection
C.1. of this Section.

      4.   Commercial kennels shall not be constructed closer than one
hundred (100) feet from any structure on adjacent property used for
human habitation nor closer than forty (40) feet to any dwelling on the
premises, except that of the owner/operator's home.

      5.   Provisions shall be made in boarding and breeding commercial
kennels for the separation of commercial kennel-owned dogs from those
owned by other persons.

   D.   Operation.

      1.   All breeding stock dogs four (4) months of age or older owned
by the commercial kennel shall be currently vaccinated against rabies
with chick embryo modified live virus rabies vaccine.

      2.   Dogs owned by the commercial kennel operator which are
allowed outside the confines of the commercial kennels shall be
individually vaccinated and shall have a current dog license attached to
the collar.

      3.   All commercial kennels, runs, buildings and other equipment
and facilities used for the care of dogs shall be cleaned daily and
shall be disinfected as necessary to prevent the spread of disease.
Boarding commercial kennels shall disinfect all facilities used in the
care of dogs between each separate usage.

      4.   All droppings shall be removed from the commercial kennel
daily. Soiled papers and bedding material shall be removed from the
commercial kennel as frequently as necessary to maintain the commercial
kennel in a clean, sanitary manner. All such waste material shall be
disposed of in a manner satisfactory to the Animal Control Officer.

      5.   It is a violation of this Chapter to sell, give away, release
or otherwise dispose of an animal except for euthanasia, which has or is
suspected of having or has been exposed to any contagious or infectious
disease transmissible to other animals or to man. All such diseases
shall be reported to the Animal Control Officer or public health
veterinarian.

      6.   Adequate provisions shall be made for the disposal of dead
animals which shall be satisfactory to the Animal Control Officer.

      7.   All dogs upon reaching the age of four (4) months shall be
vaccinated against rabies as provided herein, and when sold, the
purchaser shall be provided with a copy of the "certificate of
vaccination" issued by the veterinarian and shall be advised to secure a
dog license tag within thirty (30) days from date of purchase.

      8.   The requirements of this Section shall also apply to humane
societies and pet shops.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.130 Apiaries.

   A.   Provisions Supplement Laws. This Chapter shall in all respects
be construed to supplement and harmonize with the provisions of laws of
the State of California pertaining to bees and the beekeeping industry.

   B.   Location of Apiaries.

      1.   Apiaries shall be permitted in the DL zone districts subject
to the requirements of this Section.

      2.   Apiaries and their water supply shall be placed a minimum of
one hundred (100) feet from any property line and a minimum of five
hundred (500) feet from any street, road or highway, any public school,
park, established bus or transportation stop or from any dwelling or
place of human habitation other than that occupied by the owner or
caretaker of the apiary.

      3.   All apiaries owned or kept within the City near school yards
or places where people congregate shall be located and maintained behind
barriers (natural or otherwise) to cause bees to fly at a high altitude
over such school yard or place where people congregate.

   C.   Number of Hives Allowed. A maximum of eight (8) bee hives per
two and one-half (2-1/2) acres is allowed.

   D.   Water Supply. Prior to locating or maintaining any apiary, a
plentiful supply of fresh water must be furnished and kept available to
such apiary at all times, unless an apiary is so located that the
closest supply of water is an isolated stream or reservoir where water
is available to such bees and all other sources of water at locations
where people or animals remain are farther from the apiary than the
stream or reservoir. If no such stream or reservoir is available to the
bees, the owner or person in possession of said apiary shall cause to be
placed and maintained a watering place within one hundred (100) yards of
the apiary.

   E.   Abatement of Public Nuisance. No apiary shall be maintained or
allowed to remain in any particular location in the City but shall be
moved to another location when the Animal Control Officer determines
that there are substantial numbers of bees from such apiary which are
entering land other than where such apiary is situated and are causing a
public nuisance to the extent that the health, safety or welfare of the
public is endangered or causing property damage through such violation.
The Animal Control Officer shall serve a written notice of the violation
to the apiary owner or person in possession of the apiary requiring
removal of the apiary within forty-eight (48) hours from the time the
notice is served, all as provided in Section 7.04.150.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.135 Commercial Catteries.

   A.   Requirement of a License. Every person, firm or corporation
engaged in operating, control or management of a commercial cattery as
defined shall obtain a permit from the Animal Control Supervisor, and a
land use permit from the City.

   B.   Construction, Operation and Maintenance.

      1.   All cats shall be confined and not allowed to run at large.

      2.   Adequate housing shall be provided for the protection of cats
from the elements.

      3.   The building within which cats are to be housed shall be
provided with adequate ventilation and lighting and shall be constructed
so as to be easily kept clean and sanitary at all times. Adequate
ventilation shall be that which minimizes drafts, avoids offensive odors
and prevents moisture condensation. Cat odors shall not be allowed to
persist inside the building.

      4.   Adequate heating shall be provided for in the winter.

      5.   Cat cages shall be within an enclosed building and shall be
of suitable construction, e.g., fiberglass or stainless steel or other
material that will prevent the escape of the animal through destruction
of material of which the cage is made of and at the same time permits
easy cleaning. The minimum floor space of each cage shall be three (3)
square feet for each adult cat. Each cage shall be at least two (2) feet
in height. No more than two (2) adult cats used for breeding shall be
placed inside each cage.

      6.   Inside runs shall be so constructed that a minimum space of
three (3) square feet is provided per cat, and that the maximum number
of cats to be housed in each pen shall not exceed five (5). Wire netting
used between pens shall be such that the cats cannot put their paws
through the wire netting spaces. If dividers are of solid construction,
this shall be of uniform material and make. Enclosures shall be
constructed so as to enable the animals to remain dry and clean.

      7.   Each pen shall be provided with a cat scratching post.

      8.   Cat resting or sleeping shelves shall be provided.

      9.   All cats shall be provided with sufficient clean litter to
contain excreta, and these shall be disposed of daily in a manner
approved by the Animal Control Officer. Adequate provision shall be made
for the disposal of dead animals which shall be satisfactory to the
Animal Control Officer.

      10.   Boarded cats shall be caged or penned individually and
separated by a floor to ceiling solid partition, unless they belong to
the same owner, in which case they may stay together, provided there is
adequate space.

      11.   The operator of every commercial cattery shall be
responsible to take the appropriate preventive measures to preclude
outbreaks of infectious and contagious diseases as well as external
parasites among the cats.

      12.   Adequate disinfection shall be provided. Beddings shall be
cleaned and laundered at the end of each boarding period prior to use by
another cat.

      13.   Provisions shall be made for convenient access to clean food
and water. Food and water containers shall be kept clean and sanitary.
Animal feed shall be properly stored and protected from contamination
and vermin infestation.

   C.   Commercial Catteries Operated Along with Dog Kennels. Commercial
catteries in operation prior to adoption of this Chapter, whether
operated in conjunction with a dog kennel or not, shall be subject to
the provisions of these regulations immediately upon adoption of this
Chapter.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.140 Penalty Provisions.

   A.   Misdemeanor Violation. No person shall commit, cause or maintain
a violation of any provision or fail to comply with any of the
requirements of this Chapter. Unless a different penalty is prescribed
for violation of a specific provision of this Chapter, or is otherwise
required by law, every act prohibited or declared unlawful and every
failure to perform an act made mandatory by this Chapter, is punishable
as a misdemeanor. Every misdemeanor offense is punishable by
imprisonment in the City or County jail for a period not exceeding six
(6) months or by fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or
by both, provided that where the City Attorney determines that such
action would be in the interest of justice, he/she may specify in the
accusatory pleading that the offense shall be an infraction.

   B.   Infraction Violation. Except as otherwise prescribed elsewhere
in this Chapter, every offense specifically declared to be or charged as
an infraction is punishable by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars
($100.00) for a first violation, a fine not exceeding two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for a second violation of the same provision within
one (1) year, and a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each additional infraction violation of the same provision within
one (1) year. An infraction is not punishable by imprisonment. A person
charged with an infraction shall not be entitled to a trial by jury and
shall not be entitled to have the public defender or other counsel
appointed at public expense to represent him/her, unless he/she is
arrested and not released on his/her written promise to appear, his/her
own recognizance or a deposit of bail. However, any person who has
previously been convicted two (2) or more times during any twelve (12)
month period for any violation of this Chapter for a crime made
punishable as an infraction shall be charged with a misdemeanor upon the
third violation.

   C.   Obligation to Correct the Condition. Payment of any penalty
herein provided shall not relieve a person, firm, corporation or any
other entity from the responsibility of correcting the condition
resulting from the violation.

   D.   Separate Offense. Each person committing, causing or maintaining
a violation of this Chapter or failing to comply with the requirements
set forth herein shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each;
and every day during any portion of which any violation of any provision
of this Chapter is committed, continued, maintained or permitted by such
person and shall be punishable accordingly.

   E.   Civil Remedies Available; Remedies Cumulative. In addition to
the penalties provided in ths Section, any condition caused or permitted
to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
constitute a public nuisance and may be abated by the City by civil
process by means of a restraining order, preliminary or permanent
injunction or in any manner provided by law for the abatement of such
nuisance. All remedies herein are cumulative and non-exclusive.

   F.   Administrative Citation. In lieu of issuing an infraction
citation, the City may issue an administrative citation pursuant to an
ordinance adopted by the City, to any person responsible for committing,
causing or maintaining a violation of this Chapter. Nothing in this
Section shall preclude the City from also issuing a citation upon the
occurrence of the same offense on a separate day.

   G.   Administrative Fine. Any person issued an administrative
citation pursuant to this Chapter shall for each separate violation be
subject to: (1) an administrative fine in an amount not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first citation; (2) an administrative
fine in an amount not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for
a second citation issued for the same offense within a twelve (12) month
period of the date of the first offense; and (3) a fine in an amount not
to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a third and any subsequent
citation issued for the same offense within a twelve (12) month period
of the date of the first offense.

   H.   Modification, Suspension and/or Revocation of Validly Issued
City Permit and/or City License. Except as otherwise provided by this
Chapter, a violation of any provision of this Chapter by the holder of a
validly issued City permit and/or City license shall constitute grounds
for modification, suspension and/or revocation of said permit and/or
license.

   I.   Additional Penalties; Costs of Abatement. Nothing in this
Chapter shall preclude the City from pursuing the remedies made
applicable hereto elsewhere in this Municipal Code or under State law,
including but not limited to, as applicable, denial or revocation of
certificates of occupancy, issuance of a stop work order and injunctive
relief. In any administrative or criminal proceeding involving the
abatement of a public nuisance, the City shall also be entitled to
recover its full reasonable costs of abatement, including, but not
limited to, investigation, analysis and prosecuting the enforcement
against the guilty party, upon submission of proof of such cost by the
City.

   J.   Public Nuisance Remedies. The prevailing party in any proceeding
associated with the abatement of a public nuisance as provided herein or
in this Title 7 of the Municipal Code, shall be entitled to recovery of
attorneys’ fees incurred in any such proceeding, where the City has
elected, at the initiation of that individual action or proceeding to
seek recovery of its own attorneys’ fees. In no action, administrative
proceeding or special proceeding shall an award of attorneys’ fees to a
prevailing party exceed the amount of reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred by the City in the action or proceeding.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.145 Abatement of Public Nuisance.

Any violation of Sections 7.04.020 through 7.04.100 and 7.04.125 through
7.04.135 of this Chapter shall constitute a public nuisance and shall be
abated by licensing, removal, containment, restraint, spaying or
neutering, or maintaining a healthy environment pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this Chapter. The procedures for abatement set
forth in this Chapter shall not be exclusive and shall not in any manner
limit or restrict the City from enforcing any City ordinances or abating
public nuisances in any other manner provided by law.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.150 Notification of Nuisance.

Whenever the City Manager or his or her designee determines that any
animal within the City is being maintained contrary to one (1) or more
of the provisions of this Chapter, written Notice to Appear or Notice of
Violation may be delivered to the animal owner or the person in
responsible charge of the animal, identifying the violation(s) and
Section(s) being violated. Such notice shall set forth the
administrative penalty or penalties and methods of correcting the
violation(s). Such notice shall be served upon the animal owner or the
person in responsible charge of the animal in person, by mail, or by
clearly posting the notice on the property in a conspicuous location.
The administrative penalty or penalties described in this Section shall
be the same sum(s) as set forth in Section 7.04.140 of this Chapter for
conviction(s) of infractions(s), including attorneys' fees and costs of
abatement. If an appeal from the Notice to Appear is not filed within
the time described in Section 7.04.160 of this Chapter, then the
existence of the violation(s) described in the Notice to Appear or
Notice of Violation shall be conclusively established as a public
nuisance and shall be abated in the manner described in said notice and
in Section 7.04.190 of this Chapter, and any administrative fine(s) set
forth in said notice, including attorneys' fees and costs, shall
thereupon be due and payable.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.160 Appeal Procedure through a Hearing Officer.

   A.   The animal owner or the responsible person in charge of the
animal may contest the Notice to Appear through a Hearing Officer, who
shall be the City Manager or his or her designee, by paying the penalty
amount listed on the Notice of Violation or similar document, and by
filing a written appeal with the City Manager or designee within thirty
(30) calendar days from the date the Notice to Appear was mailed or
delivered. The appeal request shall contain:

      1.   A specific identification number of the subject Notice to
Appear.

      2.   The name and address of the appellant.

      3.   A statement of appellant's legal interest in the animal.

      4.   A statement in ordinary and concise language of the
specific(s) or action protested and the grounds for contesting the
citation, together with all material facts in support thereof.

      5.   The date and signatures of the appellant.

   B.   As soon as practical after receiving the notice appealing the
Notice to Appear, the City Manager or designee, who shall act as a
Hearing Officer, shall set a date for the appeal to be heard, which
shall not be less than seven (7) calendar days nor more than ninety (90)
calendar days from the date the notice of appeal was filed. The Hearing
Officer shall give each appellant written notice of the time and the
place of the hearing at least five (5) calendar days prior to the date
of the hearing, either by causing a copy of such notice to be delivered
to the appellant personally or by mailing a copy thereof, postage
prepaid, addressed to the appellant at his/her address shown on the
Notice to Appear. Continuances of the hearing may be granted by the
Hearing Officer on request of the appellant for good cause shown or on
the Hearing Officer's motion.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.170 Decision by Hearing Officer.

Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall determine
whether the animal, as maintained, constitutes a public nuisance. If the
Hearing Officer so finds, the Hearing Officer shall declare such animal
to be a public nuisance setting forth his/her finding and ordering the
abatement of the same by having such animal licensed, removed, confined,
restrained, spayed or neutered, and/or maintained in a healthy
environment, as may be appropriate. The decision of the Hearing Officer
may also uphold the administrative fine(s) and costs set forth in the
Notice to Appear or change the amount of the fine(s) or eliminate the
fine(s) if no violation is found to exist or to increase the costs as
appropriate. In the event the fine(s) is eliminated, the appellant shall
be entitled to refund of the appeal fee. The decision of the Hearing
Officer shall be final.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.180 Hearing Procedures.

   A.   All hearings shall be tape recorded.

   B.   The hearing need not be conducted according to the technical
rules of evidence.

   C.   Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or
explaining any direct evidence but shall not be sufficient in itself to
support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in civil
actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state. Any relevant
evidence shall be admitted if it is the type of evidence on which
reasonable persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious
affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory rule
which might make improper the admission of such evidence over objection
in civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.

   D.   Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.

   E.   Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.190 Judicial Action/Abatement.

Whenever the animal owner or responsible party fails to file a timely
appeal or fails to pay the penalty or penalties and/or correct the
violation described in Section 7.04.140 within thirty (30) days of the
issuance of a Notice to Appear, in addition to any other rights and
remedies available to the City, prosecution of the violation may be
initiated.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.04.200 Cost Recovery.

   Pursuant to the procedures set forth in Chapter 1.22 of this Code,
the City is entitled to seek recovery of all nuisance abatement costs
incurred in connection with any action taken to abate any violation or
public nuisance under this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13; Ord. No. 568, Section 8, 5/10/17.]

Chapter 7.05
RABIES VACCINATION (BITING AND BITTEN ANIMALS)

Sections:

   7.05.010   Duty to Report Animal Bites

   7.05.020   Confinement of Biting Animal

   7.05.030   Reporting and Confinement of Rabid Animals

   7.05.040   Disposition of Animals Bitten by Rabid Animals

   7.05.050   Posting of Quarantine Sign

   7.05.060   Prohibiting the Keeping and Sale of Skunks

   7.05.070   Possession of Unvaccinated Dog

   7.05.080   Vaccination

   7.05.090   Exceptions to Vaccination

   7.05.100   Authority to Enter Any Premises

   7.05.110   Penalty Provisions

7.05.010 Duty to Report Animal Bites.

It shall be the duty of any person having knowledge that any animal
subject to rabies, whether or not the animal is suspected of having
rabies, has bitten any human being within the City, to immediately
report that fact to the Animal Control Department or to the Police
Department and provide full information regarding the incident.

7.05.020 Confinement of Biting Animal.

   A.   Upon receipt of a report that a person has been bitten by an
animal subject to rabies (all warm-blooded mammals), any person
authorized to enforce the provisions of this Chapter is hereby empowered
to enter upon any private property, including the home or residence
where the biting animal is kept or has strayed, to inspect and strictly
isolate, seize or impound if necessary, in a place and manner approved
by the Animal Control Officer, any such animal for a period of ten (10)
days (for dogs and cats) and fourteen (14) days (for other animals).
Rodents (members of the order Rodentia), rabbits and hares (members of
the order Lagomorpha) are not required to be quarantined.

   B.   The Animal Control Officer or licensed veterinarian may
authorize, with permission of the owner, if known, and other legal
restrictions permitting, the euthanasia of a biting animal for the
purpose of laboratory examination for rabies using the fluorescent
rabies antibody (FRA) test.

   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove from any place of
isolation or quarantine any animal which has been isolated or
quarantined under the provisions of this Chapter, without the consent of
the Animal Control Officer.

7.05.030 Reporting and Confinement of Rabid Animals.

   A.   It is the duty of any person having knowledge of the whereabouts
of an animal known to have or suspected of having rabies to report the
fact immediately to the Animal Control Department. If such person is the
owner or possessor or has custody of such animal, he or she shall
immediately confine it and keep said animal strictly confined until it
is established to the satisfaction of said official that such animal has
or does not have rabies.

   B.   Where such owner or possessor does not have the proper facility
for such confinement, or animal owner continually allows such animal to
run loose and at large, or where the owner of such rabid or suspected
rabid animal is not known, such animal shall be isolated in strict
confinement under proper care and under the observation of a licensed
veterinarian in a pound, veterinary hospital or other adequate facility
in a manner approved by the Animal Control Officer and shall not be
killed or released for at least ten (10) days after the onset of
symptoms suggestive of rabies. If such animal creates a menace to the
public health and safety, the Animal Control Officer or his
representative may kill or destroy the animal forthwith and have it
examined for rabies using the fluorescent rabies antibody (FRA) test.

   C.   Whenever any such owned biting animal is quarantined in a place
other than the premises of its owner, all expenses incurred in its
confinement shall be the liability of the owner, possessor or custodian
of such biting animal.

7.05.040 Disposition of Animals Bitten by Rabid Animals.

   A.   Any animal that is subject to rabies which has been exposed to a
known rabid animal or suspected rabid animal shall, upon notification of
its owner, possessor or custodian, be:

      1.   Immediately securely confined in a place and manner approved
by the Animal Control Officer for a period of six (6) months; or

      2.   Immediately destroyed unless the biting animal is determined
by laboratory examination to be negative from rabies, except that in the
case of dogs and cats, the following alternative is permitted:

         a.   The dog or cat shall be revaccinated and then quarantined
for a period of thirty (30) days provided such dog or cat has been
vaccinated not less than thirty (30) days prior, with a rabies vaccine
approved by the California State Department of Public Health.

         b.   The Animal Control Officer may, at his discretion, kill or
quarantine the animal so bitten where the owner, possessor or custodian
thereof is not readily accessible or is not known.

      3.   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies will, upon
demand, be surrendered to the Animal Control Officer.

      4.   In the discretion of the Animal Control Officer, specimens of
high risk or medium risk animals involved in a biting incident shall be
examined for rabies. Specimens of low risk animals may be examined upon
payment of reasonable laboratory fees.

7.05.050 Posting of Quarantine Sign.

It shall be the duty of any person authorized to enforce the provisions
of this Chapter to post an appropriate sign in a conspicuous place at a
location where a dog or cat or any biting, vicious or rabid animal is
being quarantined or confined to warn the public of this fact. It shall
be unlawful for anyone to obstruct the posting of such a sign or to
remove or destroy such a posted sign without permission of the Animal
Control Officer.

7.05.060 Prohibiting the Keeping and Sale of Skunks.

It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to (a) trap or
capture skunks for pets; (b) trap, capture or hold skunks in captivity
for sale, barter, exchange or gift; and (c) transport skunks from or
into the City, except that the importation or exportation of skunks may
be permitted by the Animal Control Officer for recognized zoological
gardens or research institutions.

7.05.070 Possession of Unvaccinated Dog.

It shall be unlawful for any person within the City of Adelanto to own,
have an interest in, harbor and feed, or have the care, charge, custody
or possession of a dog over the age of four (4) months, whether such dog
is confined or not, unless such dog has a current vaccination with a
rabies vaccine approved by the California State Department of Public
Health and is officially tagged as provided for in this Chapter. Said
vaccines shall be used exclusively to vaccinate all dogs within the
City. Vaccination with said vaccines shall be valid for a period not to
exceed three (3) years.

7.05.080 Vaccination.

Rabies vaccination shall be performed only by a veterinarian who is duly
licensed to practice in the State of California. Vaccination for rabies
may be done in any veterinary clinic or hospital or in a low-cost rabies
vaccination clinic sponsored by the City of Adelanto.

7.05.090 Exceptions to Vaccination.

Notwithstanding the provisions of this Chapter, a dog may be exempted
from rabies vaccination if such vaccination would jeopardize the health
of such dog due to infirmity or other disability provided the owner has
in his possession a written certification from a licensed veterinarian
attesting to such infirmity or disability. The owner or custodian of
such dog shall, within ten (10) days after the termination of such
infirmity or disability, cause such dog to be vaccinated and licensed.
Any such dog with infirmity or disability shall be securely confined
within its owner’s or harborer’s premises so that it does not come in
contact with any other animal or person.

7.05.100 Authority to Enter Any Premises.

The Animal Control Officer shall have the authority to enter upon any
area or premises at any reasonable time to enforce the provisions of
this Chapter.

7.05.110 Penalty Provisions.

Except as set forth hereinabove, the penalty provisions set forth in
Chapter 7.04, commencing at Section 7.04.130, are incorporated herein in
full, and shall apply to any violation of this Chapter and any public
nuisance declared pursuant to this Chapter.

Chapter 7.06
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS; PUBLIC NUISANCE
ANIMAL HEARINGS

Sections:

   7.06.010   Declaration of Public Nuisance

   7.06.020   Public Nuisance Defined

   7.06.030   Declaring an Animal or Dog Potentially Dangerous,
Dangerous or Vicious

   7.06.040   Administrative Hearing

   7.06.050   Determination and Orders; Notice; Compliance; Decision
Final

   7.06.060   Licensing and Vaccinating Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous
or Vicious Dog or Animal

   7.06.070   Seizure and Impoundment of Dog or Animal

   7.06.080   Cost Assessment When Dog or Animal is Seized

   7.06.090   Sterilization Requirement for a Potentially Dangerous,
Dangerous or Vicious Dog or Animal

   7.06.100   Destruction of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious
Dog or Animal

   7.06.110   Restraint or Enclosure of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous
or Vicious Dog or Animal

   7.06.120   Notice of Disposal or Escape of Potentially Dangerous,
Dangerous or Vicious Dog or Animal

   7.06.130   Owners of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious Dog
or Animal to Permit Compliance Inspection

   7.06.140   Removal of Designation

   7.06.150   Keeping of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous, Potentially
Vicious or Vicious Dog or Animal

   7.06.160   Penalty Provisions

   7.06.170   Fees

7.06.010 Declaration of Public Nuisance.

   A.   It is the purpose and intent of this Chapter to establish the
City's own program, including procedures for the control of potentially
dangerous, dangerous and vicious dogs or animals, as recognized by
Section 31683 of Chapter 9 (entitled "Potentially Dangerous and Vicious
Dogs") of Division 14 of the California Food and Agricultural Code.

   B.   The City Council has found and determined that attacks by
potentially dangerous or vicious dogs or animals on human beings and
domestic animals are attributable to the failure of owners to register,
confine and properly control vicious potentially dangerous, dangerous
and/or vicious dogs or animals.

   C.   Potentially dangerous, dangerous and vicious dogs or animals are
hereby declared a public nuisance.

   D.   For the purposes of this section, a person is peaceably and
lawfully upon the private property of an owner or possessor of the
animal when he or she is on the property in the performance of any duty
imposed upon him or her by the laws of this state or any city or county,
or by the laws or postal regulations of the United States, or when he or
she is on the property upon express or implied invitation.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.020 Public Nuisance Defined.

   A.   “Dangerous Dog or Animal” is defined as any of the following:

      1.   Any dog or animal with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise
threaten the safety of human beings or domestic animals.

      2.   Any animal which twice within a forty-eight (48) month period
and in two separate incidents, has actively pursued, attacked, bitten or
otherwise inflicted on a person or animal engaged in lawful activity an
injury less severe than a ‘substantial injury’ (as defined in this Title
7).

      3.   Any animal which has once attacked, bitten, or otherwise
caused injury to a person or animal engaged in lawful activity,
resulting in death or substantial injury.

      4.   Any animal which has been previously declared a potentially
dangerous animal and the owner/custodian has failed to restrain the
animal as so directed and/or as provided in this Chapter.

      5.   Any dog or animal seized under Section 599aa of the Penal
Code and whose owner or keeper is convicted under subdivision (a) of
Section 597.5 of the Penal Code, or any animal used during or in the
commission of a crime that constitutes a misdemeanor or a felony where
the facts and circumstances of the animal’s involvement in the crime
give reason to believe that the animal poses a threat to public health
and/or safety.

   B.   "Potentially Dangerous Dog or Animal" is defined as any of the
following:

      1.   Any dog or animal which when unprovoked, on two (2) separate
occasions within the prior thirty-six (36) month period, engages in any
behavior which requires a defensive action by any person to prevent
bodily harm when the person and the dog or animal are off the property
of the owner or keeper of the dog or animal.

      2.   Any dog or animal which, when unprovoked, bites a human
being.

      3.   Any dog or animal, when unprovoked, on two (2) separate
occasions within the prior thirty-six (36) month period has killed,
seriously bitten, inflicted injury or otherwise caused injury attacking
a domestic animal off the property of the owner or keeper of such dog or
animal.

      4.   Any dog or animal, which on three (3) separate occasions
within a twelve (12) month period, was observed being unrestrained off
its owner's premises by an Animal Control or Code Enforcement Officer or
private citizen of the City of Adelanto or was apprehended and/or
impounded on three (3) separate occasions for being unrestrained or
uncontrolled off its owner's premises.

   C.   "Vicious Dog or Animal" is defined as any of the following:

      1.   Any dog or animal which, when unprovoked, in an aggressive
manner, inflicts substantial injury on or kills a human being.

      2.   Any dog or animal previously determined to be, and currently
designated as, a potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog or
animal which, after its owner or keeper has been notified of its
determination, continues the behavior described in Subsection B. above.

      3.   Any dog or animal currently listed and determined to be a
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog or animal, which is not
properly licensed and vaccinated, and/or not properly restrained and/or
maintained on the owner’s property.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.030 Declaring an Animal or Dog Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or
Vicious.

   A.   Determination that an Animal or Dog is Potentially Dangerous,
Dangerous or Vicious. If an Animal Control Officer, Code Enforcement
Officer or law enforcement officer has investigated and determined that
there exists probable cause to believe that a dog or animal is
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious, the Animal Control
Supervisor, or designee, may set a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether or not the dog or animal in question should be
declared potentially dangerous or vicious.

   B.   Notice to Owner or Keeper; Hearing. The Animal Control
Supervisor shall notify the owner or keeper of the dog or animal that an
administrative hearing will be held by the City, at which time said
owner may present evidence as to why the dog or animal in question
should not be declared potentially dangerous or vicious. The owner or
keeper of the dog or animal shall be served with notice of the hearing,
either in person, by first class mail or by certified mail with return
receipt requested at the owner's last known address, not less than five
(5) days, nor more than ten (10) days, before the time set for the
hearing. Service shall be deemed complete at the time the notice is
personally served or deposited in the mail. Failure of any person to
receive such notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings
thereunder. The hearings shall be open to the public. The City Manager
or designee shall conduct the administrative hearing.

   C.   Notice shall be substantiated in the form set forth below:

      "Re: Notice of Administrative Hearing for determination and
disposition of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious Dogs or
Animals.

      This is a Notice of Administrative Hearing before the City Manager
of the City of Adelanto or his/her designee, to determine whether your
dog or animal (name of dog or animal, description of animal if
available) is a potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog (or
animal). If your dog (or animal) is found to be potentially dangerous
and/or vicious as defined by the City of Adelanto Municipal Code Chapter
7.06, Section 7.06.030, the City Manager or his/her designee as Hearing
Officer may issue any one (1) or more of, but not limited to, the
following orders:

      1.   The dog or animal shall be properly licensed and vaccinated.

      2.   The dog or animal shall be maintained on the owner's property
and kept indoors or in a securely fenced yard from which the dog or
animal cannot escape.

      3.   The dog or animal shall be maintained in a covered chain-link
run with cement flooring and locked gate from which the dog or animal
cannot escape and into which children cannot trespass.

      4.   The dog or animal cannot be off the owner's premises unless
it is restrained by a substantial leash and muzzled (if appropriate)
under the control of a responsible adult.

      5.   If the dog or animal dies or is sold, transferred or
permanently removed from the City of Adelanto where the owner resides,
the owner shall notify the City of Adelanto of the changed condition and
new location of the dog or animal within two (2) days in writing.

      6.   The dog or animal shall be destroyed.

      7.   The dog or animal owner shall pay all costs incurred by the
City of Adelanto for housing, maintenance, feeding and veterinary care
during such time the dog or animal is in the custody of the City of
Adelanto.

      8.   The dog or animal shall be required to be sterilized.

      9.   For purposes of future identification, photo identification
or permanent marking of the animal.

      10.   If the person owning or possessing the animal is a tenant or
occupant of property owned by another person, requiring that the person
owning or possessing the animal obtain written permission from the
landlord/property owner to keep the animal on certain specified
premises.

      11.   Any person keeping or harboring any dog or animal deemed
vicious within the City of Adelanto must provide proof of ability to
respond in damages up to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) by
obtaining a policy of insurance coverage in said amount for bodily
injury to, or death of, any person or persons or for damage to property
owned by any other person or persons or for damage to property owned by
any other person which may result from the ownership, keeping or
maintenance of such dog or animal.

      12.   Animal Control has the right to inspect the property at any
time for violations of the findings and orders in the hearing. In the
event the owner fails to meet the required conditions from the findings
and orders in the hearing, Animal Control may impound the dog or animal
and take it to the Shelter or otherwise disposed of such dog or animal,
so that it may not become a menace to the public."

      13.   You have five (5) days from the date you receive the written
notice of the findings and orders in the hearing to comply with required
corrections and pay all fees and/or fines associated with this hearing.
On day six (6), the dog or animal will become property of the Animal
Control and be disposed of.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.040 Administrative Hearing.

   A.   At the time stated in the Notice of Administrative Hearing, the
City Manager or his/her designee, hereafter referred to as Hearing
Officer, shall hear and consider all relevant evidence, objections or
portents and shall receive testimony under oath relative to the alleged
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog or animal. The Hearing
Officer may admit into evidence all relevant evidence, including
incident reports and affidavits of witnesses. The Hearing Officer may
find, upon a preponderance of evidence, that the dog or animal in
question is potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious and may make
orders authorized by Section 7.06.030 of this Chapter. Said hearing may
be continued from time to time.

   B.   The Hearing Officer shall consider at least the following
factors in determining whether an animal is potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious:

      1.   Whether any injury or damage to a person by the animal was
caused or contributed to by the actions of that person, including by way
of acts of physical abuse, tormenting, teasing, or assaulting the
animal.

      2.   Whether a person injured by the animal was committing a
trespass or other tort upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper of
an animal, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.

      3.   Whether any injury to a domestic animal was caused or
contributed to by the actions of the domestic animal, including acts of
teasing, tormenting, abusing, or attacking the animal that allegedly
caused the injury.

      4.   Whether a person injured by the animal had gained uninvited
and unauthorized entry onto fenced or indoor property of the animal’s
owner or keeper. As used in this section, “unauthorized entry” does not
include entry into a fenced residential front yard unless the yard is
locked or posted to prohibit entry.

      5.   Whether any injury to a person by the animal was caused while
the animal was protecting or defending a person within the immediate
vicinity of the animal from an unjustified attack or assault.

   C.   If the Hearing Officer finds by a preponderance of the evidence
that the dog or animal, which is the subject of the hearing, is
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious, the Hearing Officer shall
prepare findings and make specific orders with respect to the dog or
animal as authorized by this Chapter. A copy of the findings and orders
shall be served on the owner or keeper of the dog or animal in
accordance with the provisions of Section 7.06.030.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.050 Determination and Orders; Notice; Compliance; Decision Final.

After an administrative hearing is conducted pursuant to this Chapter,
the owner or keeper of the dog or animal shall be notified in writing of
the determination and orders issued, either personally or by first class
mail, postage prepaid. If a determination is made that the dog or animal
is potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious, the owner or keeper
shall comply with those orders made by the Hearing Officer in accordance
with any time schedule established by the Animal Control Supervisor, but
in no case more than thirty (30) days after the date of the
determination or thirty-five (35) days if the notice of determination is
mailed to the owner or keeper of the dog or animal. The findings and
orders by the Hearing Officer are final, without the right of further
hearing or appeal.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.060 Licensing and Vaccinating Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or
Vicious Dog or Animal.

All potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dogs or animals shall be
properly licensed and vaccinated (when appropriate). The licensing
authority shall include the potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious
designation in the registration records of the dog or animal, either
after the owner or the keeper of the dog or animal has agreed to the
designation or the Hearing Officer has determined the designation
applies to the dog or animal. The City may charge a potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog fee in addition to the regular
licensing fee to provide for the increase costs of maintaining the
records of the dog or animal.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.070 Seizure and Impoundment of Dog or Animal.

   A.   If upon investigation it is determined by the Animal Control
Officer that probable cause exists to believe that the dog or animal in
question poses an immediate threat to public safety, the Animal Control
Officer may seize and impound the dog or animal pending the
administrative hearing to be held pursuant to this Chapter. The owner or
keeper of the dog or animal shall be liable to the City for all costs
and expenses of keeping the dog or animal if the dog or animal is later
adjudicated of being potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious. It
shall be a misdemeanor to obstruct or otherwise impede an Animal Control
Officer during the attempted seizure and/or impoundment of the dog or
animal.

   B.   When a dog or animal has been impounded pursuant to Subsection
A. hereinabove and it is not contrary to public safety, the Animal
Control Officer may permit the animal to be confined at the owner's
expense in a City-approved kennel or veterinary facility.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.080 Cost Assessment When Dog or Animal is Seized.

   A.   If it is determined at the administrative hearing as provided in
this Chapter that the dog or animal in question is potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious, the Hearing Officer may assess the
owner or keeper of the dog or animal for any costs of administration
incurred by the City, including but not limited to costs incurred in
housing the dog or animal maintaining and feeding the dog or animal or
for any medical attention required for the dog or animal.

   B.   Costs assessed shall be charged to the owner or keeper, and if
unpaid, a lien shall be placed upon the owner's real property where the
animal was maintained. The City Council shall affirm such assessment and
cause same to be recorded on the assessment roll. Such assessment shall
constitute a special assessment against and a lien upon the property.
Said assessment shall be levied and collected in accordance with
Government Code Section 38773.5 and the procedure established for levy
and collection of nuisance abatement assessments set forth in applicable
provisions of the Municipal Code.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.090 Sterilization Requirement for a Potentially Dangerous,
Dangerous or Vicious Dog or Animal.

The owner or keeper of any dog or animal determined to be potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious pursuant to this Chapter shall have said
dog or animal sterilized at the dog or animal owner's or keeper's
expense.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.100 Destruction of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious Dog
or Animal.

   A.   A dog or animal determined to be potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious may be destroyed by the Animal Control Department
when it is found, after an administrative hearing pursuant to this
Chapter, that the release of the dog or animal would create a
significant threat to the public health, safety and welfare.

   B.   If it is determined that a dog or animal is potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious and shall not be destroyed, the Hearing
Officer shall impose conditions upon the owner or keeper of the dog or
animal that protects the public health, safety and welfare.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.110 Restraint or Enclosure of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or
Vicious Dog or Animal.

   A.   A dog or animal determined to be potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious pursuant to this Chapter shall at all times while
not securely confined indoors:

      1.   Be confined in an area which is securely fenced and locked so
as to prevent trespass by children and from which the dog or animal
cannot escape.

      2.   When off the property of its owner or keeper, humanely
muzzled (if appropriate) and leashed with a substantial leash not to
exceed six (6) feet in length and under the control of a responsible
adult.

      3.   Humanely confined in a vehicle so that it can neither escape
nor inflict injury on passers by.

      4.   Be confined in an outdoor fenced enclosure on the property
where the dog or animal is kept or maintained so it cannot bite, attack
or cause injury to any person or domestic animal. The enclosure must be
anchored solidly to the ground and must be of sufficient structural
strength and height to ensure the strict confinement of the dog or
animal and to prevent unauthorized access. If necessary to accomplish
the intent of containment, a cover over the enclosure and a cement or
solid bottom shall be installed. In addition, any and all gates must be
kept locked by a substantial lock.

      5.   A vicious dog or animal may be off the property of the owner
or keeper for the purpose of obtaining veterinary care, sold or given
away, complying with the provisions of this Chapter.

      6.   When off the property of its owner or keeper or in the care
of a veterinarian, the dog or animal shall be securely and humanely
muzzled (if appropriate) and restrained with a harness, collar, choke
chain and nylon or leather leash sufficient to restrain the dog or
animal not exceeding four (4) feet in length and shall be under the
direct charge and control of its owner or adult keeper.

   B.   When circumstances warrant, the officer in charge of the Animal
Control Department may modify conditions of restraint to accommodate the
special needs of dogs or animals.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.120 Notice of Disposal or Escape of Potentially Dangerous,
Dangerous or Vicious Dog or Animal.

   A.   The owner or keeper of any dog or animal found to be potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious, pursuant to this Chapter, shall notify
the Animal Control Department immediately if the dog or animal has
escaped, is unconfined, has attacked another dog or animal, has bitten a
human being or has died.

   B.   The said owner or keeper shall notify the Animal Control
Department within forty-eight (48) hours if the dog or animal is sold,
transferred or permanently removed from the place where the owner or
keeper resides or kept the dog or animal at the time the dog or animal
was determined to be potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious. The
owner or keeper shall also inform the Animal Control Department of any
new name, address and phone number of any new owner or keeper of said
dog or animal.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13]

7.06.130 Owners of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious Dog or
Animal to Permit Compliance Inspection.

The owner or keeper of the potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious
dog or animal determined to be potentially dangerous, dangerous or
vicious pursuant to this Chapter shall allow inspection of the animal,
its enclosure and of the property where the dog or animal is kept by the
Animal Control Department or any other law enforcement agency without
warrant, and to produce upon demand, proof of full compliance with the
requirements fo this Chapter and/or requirements of the orders issued by
the Hearing Officer.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.140 Removal of Designation.

If there are no additional instances of the behavior described in
Section 7.06.020.B. within a forty-eight (48) month period from the date
of designation as a potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog or
animal, the dog or animal may be removed from the list of potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious dogs or animals. The dog or animal may,
but is not required to be, removed from the list of potentially
dangerous or vicious dogs or animals prior to the expiration of the
forty-eight (48) month period if the owner or keeper of the dog or
animal demonstrates to the Animal Control Department that changes in
circumstances or measures taken by the owner or keeper, such as training
of the dog or animal, has mitigated the risk to the public safety.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.150 Keeping of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous, Potentially
Vicious or Vicious Dog or Animal.

It is unlawful to own, harbor or keep any dog or animal found by another
jurisdiction to be potentially dangerous, dangerous, potentially vicious
or vicious. Any dog or animal that has previously been determined to be
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious after an administrative
hearing or court order by another jurisdiction will not be allowed to be
kept, owned or harbored within the City of Adelanto.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.160 Penalty Provisions.

   A.   The provisions of this Chapter pertaining to potentially
dangerous, dangerous and vicious dogs are adopted in accordance with and
shall not be construed to conflict with the provisions of Chapter 9 of
Division 14 of the California Food and Agriculture Code. Should any
inconsistency or conflict exist between the provisions of this Chapter
and the terms of Chapter 9 of Division 14 of the Food and Agriculture
Code, the terms of State law shall control.

   B.   Any violation of this Chapter involving a potentially dangerous
dog shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00). Any violation of this Chapter involving a dangerous or
vicious dog shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00).

   C.   Except as set forth hereinabove, the penalty provisions set
forth in Chapter 7.04, commencing at Section 7.04.130, are incorporated
herein in full, and shall apply to any violation of this Chapter and any
public nuisance declared pursuant to this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

7.06.170 Fees.

All fines, fees or penalties paid pursuant to this Chapter shall be paid
to the City of Adelanto where the violation occurred, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the implementation of this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]

TITLE 8
HEALTH AND SANITATION

Chapters:

   8.01   Collection of Solid Waste

   8.02   Recycling Requirements for Large Events and Large Venues

   8.05   Recycling and Diversion of Construction and Demolition (C&D)
Waste

   8.10   Hazardous Materials

   8.15   Vehicle Abatement and Removal

   8.20   Water Conservation Plan

   8.25   Public Nuisances

   8.30   Weed and Litter Abatement

   8.35   Cost Recovery on Special Inspections

   8.40   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection and Maintenance
Program

   8.50   [Repealed]

   8.60   Personal Cultivation and Use of Cannabis

   8.70   Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction

CHAPTER 8.01
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE

Sections:

   8.01.010   Definitions

   8.01.020   Authority to Grant Franchises

   8.01.030   Subscription to Collection Service or Self-Hauling

   8.01.040   Public Nuisance

   8.01.050   Containers

   8.01.060   Frequency of Collection

   8.01.070   Unlawful and Prohibited Acts

   8.01.080   Use of Containers for Solid Waste Generated During
Construction and Demolition

   8.01.090   Self Haulers

   8.01.100   Placement of Rates on Tax Rolls

   8.01.101   Mandatory Commercial Recycling Program

   8.01.110   Violations

   8.01.120   Mandatory Commercial Organics Recycling Program

8.01.010 Definitions.

The words and phrases contained in this chapter shall have the meaning
commonly associated with them unless special meaning is ascribed to them
by the California Public Resources Code or the California Code of
Regulations (as either may be amended from time to time) in which case
such meaning shall apply; except that the following words shall, for the
purpose of this chapter, be defined as follows:

   A.   "AB 939" shall mean that State legislation commonly known as the
California Integrated Waste Management Act (Stats. 1989, Chapter 1095,
as amended) as codified in Public Resources Code Section 49000, et seq.

   B.   "Bins" shall mean a metal container, commonly referred to as
dumpsters, including compactors and any similar such devices, with a
capacity of under ten (10) cubic yards.

   C.   "Cart" means a plastic container provided by a franchisee for
collection, with a hinged lid and wheels serviced by an automated
process, as opposed to a manual process of lifting and dumping.

   D.   "City" means the City of Adelanto.

   E.   "City Manager" means the City Manager of the City or his
duly-authorized representative or designee.

   F.   "Collect" or "Collection" or "Collecting" shall mean to take
physical possession of, transport, and remove solid waste from a
premises.

   G.   "Commercial Premises" means premises upon which business
activity is conducted, including but not limited to retail sales,
services, wholesale operations, manufacturing and industrial operations,
but excluding residential premises upon which business activities are
conducted when such activities are permitted under applicable zoning
regulations and are not the primary use of the property. Notwithstanding
any provision to the contrary herein, for purposes of this chapter,
premises upon which hotels and motels are operated shall be deemed to be
commercial premises.

   H.   "Container" means any and all types of solid waste receptacles,
including carts, bins, and rolloff boxes.

   I.   "Franchisee" means a person, persons, firm or corporation that
has been issued a franchise by the City to provide solid waste handling
services within the City.

   J.   "Hazardous Waste" means all substances defined as hazardous
waste, acutely hazardous waste, or extremely hazardous waste by the
State of California in Health and Safety Code Sections 25110.02, 25115
and 25117, or in the future amendments to or re-codifications of such
statutes, or identified and listed as hazardous waste by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Federal Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. § 6901, et seq.), all future
amendments thereto, and all rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder.

   K.   "Multi-Family Dwelling" means either (i) any building or lot
containing four (4) or more dwelling units; or (ii) any building or lot
containing two (2) or more dwelling units which franchisee determines
(and City agrees) must receive solid waste handling services through the
use of shared bins, since they are not reasonably able to receive
individualized solid waste handling services through the use of carts or
customer-provided containers. Any ambiguity as to whether a customer's
premises qualifies as a single-family dwelling or multi-family dwelling
shall be resolved by the City Manager whose decision shall be final.

   L.   "Premises" shall mean any land, building and/or structure within
the City limits where solid waste is generated or accumulated.

   M.   "Person" means any individual, firm, corporation, association,
group or other entity.

   N.   "Recycle" or "Recycling" means the process of collecting,
sorting, cleaning, treating and reconstituting materials that would
otherwise become solid waste and returning these materials to the
economic mainstream in the form of raw materials for new, reused or
reconstituted products which meet the quality standards used in the
marketplace.

   O.   "Recyclable Material" means that solid waste capable of being
recycled, including but not limited to glass, newsprint, newspaper,
aluminum, cardboard, certain plastics or metal.

   P.   "Residential Premises" shall mean all premises upon which
dwelling units exist. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary
herein, for purposes of this chapter, premises upon which hotels and
motels are operated shall be deemed to be commercial premises.

   Q.   "Rolloff Box" means containers of ten (10) cubic yards or
larger, including compactors.

   R.   "Self Hauler" means any person or entity that, pursuant to
Section 8.01.090 of this chapter, provides for the collection,
transportation and disposal of solid waste generated by his/her/its own
premises.

   S.   "Single-Family Dwelling" means a building or lot containing one
(1) dwelling unit, and for purposes of this agreement includes buildings
and lots with more than one (1) dwelling unit where such dwelling units
are determined by the City to be reasonably able to receive
individualized solid waste handling service by the automated process
utilizing carts. Any ambiguity as to whether a premises qualifies as a
single-family dwelling or multi-family dwelling shall be resolved by the
City Manager.

   T.   "Solid Waste" shall mean and include all discarded putrescible
and non-putrescible solid, semisolid and liquid wastes, including
garbage, trash, refuse, rubbish, construction waste, industrial waste,
commercial solid waste, and any other discarded solid, semisolid and
liquid waste permitted to be disposed of at a Class III landfill and
which are included within the definition of "Nonhazardous Solid Waste"
set forth in the California Code of Regulations, as it may be amended
from time to time. “Solid Waste” does not include hazardous waste (Class
I), low-level radioactive waste, untreated medical waste, or special
wastes as defined herein.

   U.   "Special Wastes" shall mean wastes other than solid waste,
including sewage, sludge, industrial sludge, asbestos, auto bodies,
tires, used motor oil, hazardous waste, animal body parts, explosive
substances, radioactive materials, acids, solvents and other materials
which may not be disposed of at a Class III landfill or which require
special handling.

   V.   "Yard Waste" means all leaves, grass cuttings and shrubs that
accompany routine household or property maintenance functions.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.01.020 Authority to Grant Franchises.

The City Council may by resolution or ordinance grant one (1) or more
franchises for solid waste handling services related to solid waste
generated within the City.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.01.030 Subscription to Collection Service or Self-Hauling.

   A.   Arrangements for Removal of Solid Waste Mandatory. Except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, the owner, property manager, tenant
and/or person in charge or control of each residential premises and each
commercial premises in the City shall either (i) subscribe to solid
waste handling services with a franchisee for said premises; or (ii)
obtain and maintain registration as a self-hauler as set forth in this
chapter in connection with said premises.

   B.   Exception; Vacant Premises. The above requirement to provide for
solid waste handling services shall not apply in connection with any
residential premises at which all dwelling units are vacant, or
commercial premises that are vacant, for a period of one hundred twenty
(120) days or more, provided this exception shall only apply during the
period of vacancy. Any person seeking to avail himself/herself of the
exception provided herein shall bear the burden of providing reasonable
evidence to City, pursuant to such regulations or guidelines as the City
Manager is hereby authorized to develop, demonstrating the premises was
vacant for the period in question.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.01.040 Public Nuisance.

   A.   It is unlawful, and a public nuisance, for any person to occupy
or inhabit any property within the City for which arrangements have not
been made and kept in full force and effect for solid waste handling
services in a manner consistent with the provisions hereof.

   B.   The keeping of solid waste in containers other than those
prescribed by this chapter, or the keeping upon premises of solid waste
which is offensive, obnoxious or unsanitary, is unlawful, constitutes a
public nuisance, and may be abated in the manner provided by law for the
abatement of nuisances.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.01.050 Containers.

   A.   Every owner, occupant or person in possession, charge or control
of any premises within the City shall deposit or cause to be deposited
all solid waste generated or accumulated on such premises, and intended
for collection and disposal, in sealed, watertight bins, carts, rolloff
boxes or other containers that are either (i) provided by, or acceptable
to, a franchisee; or (ii) approved by the City Manager for self-hauling
purposes pursuant to this chapter. No owner, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control of any premises shall utilize a bin, cart,
rolloff box or other container not in conformance with the requirements
hereof for the collection, accumulation or storage of solid waste.

   B.   No bin, cart, rolloff box or other container shall be placed
adjacent to or in a street or public right-of-way for collection service
more than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the normal collection time,
and all containers so placed shall be removed from the street or
right-of-way within twelve (12) hours after collection.

   C.   Container lids shall remain closed at all times that the
container is unattended. If the solid waste contained within a bin,
cart, rolloff box or other container exceeds the actual capacity of the
container, then a larger container or multiple containers must be
utilized. Any solid waste that does not reasonably fit within a
container (such as furniture or other large bulky items) must be covered
and protected, as by a tarp, netting or other secured material, in order
to prevent the scattering of debris by natural forces such as wind or
animals. The owner, tenant, occupant and/or person or entity in control
of a premises shall be responsible for the clean-up of any solid waste
spilled, dumped or scattered as a result of a container overflow.

   D.   It is unlawful for any person to share, place solid waste in, or
to otherwise use the bin, cart, rolloff box or other container of
another person or business. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to
the contrary, the sharing of containers shall be permitted under the
following conditions:

      1.   The owner, property manager or person in charge or control of
a premises upon which a multi-family dwelling exists may arrange for
containers for shared use by the occupants, tenants or persons in
possession of the dwelling units on such premises.

      2.   The occupants of a single commercial building or contiguous
and adjacent commercial buildings may share a container for solid waste
handling services at a common location, subject to approval of the City
Manager, which approval may be delegated to a franchisee. Approval by
the City Manager shall be based upon (i) the type of solid waste
generated by each commercial premises; and (ii) the number of containers
and frequency of solid waste collection needed to protect the public
health, welfare and safety.

   E.   It is unlawful to use any bin, cart, rolloff box or other
container furnished by a franchisee for any purpose other than the
collection, accumulation and storage of solid waste; or to convert or
alter such containers for other uses; or to intentionally damage such
containers.

   F.   All containers used for the collection of solid waste at
single-family dwellings shall be stored out of public view in a side or
rear yard or an enclosed garage except on collection day. If the
physical design of the dwelling does not allow for obscuring containers
from public view because of the type of fencing or lack thereof,
containers shall be stored in an area adjacent to the dwelling at the
point furthest from the closest street or roadway or in an enclosure
adjacent to the dwelling designed to conform with the exterior design of
the dwelling.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.01.060 Frequency of Collection.

   A.   Residential Premises. With the exception of vacant premises
meeting the provisions of Section 08.01.030B., not less than once per
week, every owner, occupant or person in possession, charge or control
of any residential premises within the City shall remove by self-hauling
(as provided herein) or cause to be removed by subscription to services
provided by a franchisee all solid waste stored, generated, collected or
accumulated on such premises.

   B.   Commercial Premises. With the exception of vacant premises
meeting the provisions of Section 08.01.030B., not less than once per
week, every owner, occupant or person in possession, charge or control
of any commercial premises within the City shall remove by self-hauling
(as provided herein), or cause to be removed by subscription to services
provided by a franchisee, all solid waste stored, generated, collected
or accumulated on such premises.

   C.   Modifications to Collection Frequency. The City Manager may
provide written notice to the owner of any premises that the above
minimum removal requirements are not sufficient to avoid the creation of
a public nuisance due to unique circumstances at such premises. City may
direct that solid waste shall be removed by the owner of any premises so
notified on a more frequent schedule (as determined by City) and/or that
additional or larger containers shall be utilized (as determined by
City).

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.01.070 Unlawful and Prohibited Acts.

   A.   It is unlawful for any person other than a franchisee (or its
agents and employees) to collect any discarded solid waste including
recyclable material, or otherwise provide solid waste handling services
within the City. This prohibition shall not, however, apply to:

      1.   Registered self-haulers as defined in this chapter;

      2.   The owner, tenant or occupant of residential or commercial
premises who has subscribed for and is receiving solid waste handling
services with a franchisee, when such owner, tenant or occupant is
hauling materials generated at his/her own premises to a lawful disposal
or recycling facility. This exemption does not permit the hiring of any
person or entity, other than a franchisee, to haul solid waste from
one's own premises;

      3.   The collection, transportation and disposal of construction
and demolition debris by a contractor, handyman, repairman or other
similar service provider as an incidental part of the services provided
to its customers rather than as a hauling service, provided that such
solid waste is not collected or transported by a third party hired for
the primary purpose of collecting and transporting said materials, and
further provided that such services comply with any ordinances, policies
and regulations of the City relating to the collection of such
materials;

      4.   The collection, transportation and disposal of yard waste,
green waste and related solid waste by a gardener or landscaper as an
incidental part of the gardening or landscaping services provided to its
customers, rather than as a hauling service, provided that such solid
waste is not collected or transported by a third party hired for the
primary purpose of collecting and transporting said materials;

      5.   Any person or entity collecting recyclable material sold or
donated to it by the person or entity that generated such recyclable
material (the "generator") provided, however, to the extent permitted by
law, if the generator is required to pay monetary or non-monetary
consideration for the collection, transportation, transfer or processing
of recyclable material, the fact that the generator receives a reduction
or discount in price therefor (or in other terms of the consideration
the generator is required to pay) shall not be considered a sale or
donation.

   B.   It is unlawful for any person, other than the owner, occupant or
person in possession, charge or control of any residential or commercial
premises, or a person authorized by law (such as a franchisee), to
remove any bin, cart, rolloff box or other container from any such
premises or from any location where it was lawfully placed for
collection, without the prior written approval of the owner, occupant or
person in possession, charge or control of such premises.

   C.   No person shall place solid waste adjacent to a street or public
right-of-way for collection by a franchisee without having first
subscribed for solid waste handling services with such franchisee.

   D.   No person shall burn any solid waste within the City, except in
an approved incinerator or other device for which a permit has been
issued by the building official and fire marshal, and which complies
with all applicable local, state and/or federal permit requirements,
laws, rules and regulations.

   E.   It is unlawful for any person, other than a franchisee, to take,
remove or appropriate for his/her own use any solid waste, including
recyclable materials, which has been placed in any street or alley for
collection or removal by a franchisee, regardless of whether the solid
waste is placed in a bin, cart, rolloff box or other container.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.01.080 Use of Containers for Solid Waste Generated During Construction
and Demolition.

Any person who generates solid waste in connection with the construction
of a new building, a building addition, remodel, or the demolition of
any structure for which a building permit is required, shall either make
arrangements for solid waste handling service with the use of containers
from a franchisee, be registered to self haul such solid waste in the
manner set forth herein, or make arrangements pursuant to Section
08.01.070A.3. In addition to constituting a violation of this chapter,
failure to produce evidence of compliance with this Section upon the
request of a City building inspector, code enforcement officer or other
City officer shall result in the red-tagging of the project by the City
and a requirement that all work cease until compliance with this
Section.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.01.090 Self Haulers.

   A.   Self haulers registered and operating in accordance with this
chapter are only permitted to collect, transport and dispose of solid
waste generated by and upon the self hauler's own premises. Under no
circumstances may a self hauler collect, transport or dispose of solid
wastes generated upon premises that are not owned, operated or
controlled by the self hauler. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this chapter, registered self haulers shall not be permitted to share,
place solid waste in, or to otherwise use the bin, cart, rolloff box, or
other container of another person or business.

   B.   Registration. All self haulers shall subscribe to the following
registration requirements:

      1.   Each self hauler shall obtain registration from the City
Manager. Self haulers must renew their registrations the commencement of
each fiscal year. Initial applications following the adoption of these
regulations, for the 2010-2011 fiscal year, must be submitted to the
City Manager on or before January 1, 2010.

      2.   The application to register for self-hauling, whether upon
initial application or renewal, shall include the following: (i) a list
of all bins, carts, rolloff boxes and other containers to be used by the
self hauler; (ii) a list of all transport and disposal equipment to be
used by the self hauler; (iii) a written explanation of where all solid
waste will be delivered for disposal and diversion; (v) a written plan
explaining to the reasonable satisfaction of the City Manager how not
less than fifty percent (50%) of solid waste collected will be diverted
from disposal in compliance with AB 939; and (vi) any other information
deemed necessary by the City Manager to ensure protection of public
health, safety and sanitary needs.

      3.   Renewal applications shall additionally include: (i) receipts
from self-hauling activities undertaken in the prior year demonstrating
that the applicant has effectively diverted at least fifty percent (50%)
of all solid waste generated at its premises from landfills in a manner
that complies with the requirements of AB 939; and (ii) receipts from
self-hauling activities undertaken in the prior year demonstrating that
the applicant has delivered solid waste generated at its premises to
appropriate disposal or recycling facilities at least as frequently as
collection is required for such self hauler by the City Manager.

      4.   The City Manager shall approve the application if it meets
the requirements of this Section, and if the equipment, containers,
diversion plan and disposal plan meet with his reasonable satisfaction,
and if evidence of past diversion and disposal requirements demonstrate
the applicant has complied with the fifty percent (50%) diversion
requirement and otherwise complied with all laws related to disposal of
solid waste.

   C.   Containers. Each self hauler shall provide its own bins, carts,
rolloff boxes or other containers. Bins, carts, rolloff boxes or other
containers utilized by a self hauler must conform to industry standards
for solid waste disposal and must be approved by the City Manager in
writing prior to issuance of a self-hauler registration. In addition,
any containers utilized by a self hauler shall comply with the following
requirements:

      1.   All containers shall be maintained in good repair, and any
question as to the meaning of this standard shall be resolved by the
City Manager.

      2.   All containers shall be maintained in a sealed, watertight
condition.

      3.   Self haulers shall remove any graffiti that appears on
containers within twenty-four (24) hours after becoming aware of it.

   D.   Collection and Transport Equipment. Collection and transport
equipment, including but not limited to transport trucks and vehicles,
utilized by a self hauler must be approved by the City Manager in
writing prior to issuance of a self-hauler registration.

   E.   Non-Commercial Venture. It is the intent of this chapter to
prevent and proscribe self-hauling activities undertaken as a commercial
enterprise. Self haulers must obtain all equipment, including containers
and collection and transportation equipment, at a fair market value that
does not include any hauling services, "free" or otherwise. A self
hauler may utilize its own employees to undertake self-hauling
activities, but under no circumstance may a self hauler utilize an
independent contractor or any other person or entity for solid waste
handling services other than a franchisee.

   F.   Other Recycling Obligations. Self haulers shall recycle all
recyclable materials not otherwise addressed by this Section to a degree
and in a manner consistent with standards generally applicable to the
solid waste industry and as required by State law.

   G.   Collection Frequency. Unless otherwise specifically provided in
this chapter, self haulers shall remove solid waste from their premises
at least once per week. However, upon application to the City for a
self-hauler permit, the City Manager may determine a different frequency
for solid waste collection, transport and disposal from the self
hauler's premises. This determination shall be based upon the nature of
the premises, the type of solid waste generated by the premises, and the
collection capacity of the self hauler as demonstrated by information in
the application.

   H.   Hazardous and Special Wastes. Unless lawfully and currently
licensed under state, federal and local laws, no self hauler shall
engage in the collection, transport or disposal of hazardous waste or
special wastes.

   I.   Revocation. The City Manager may revoke a self-hauler permit if
the permittee either (i) fails to divert at least fifty percent (50%) of
all solid waste generated at its premises from landfills in a manner
that complies with the requirements of AB 939; or (ii) fails to deliver
solid waste generated at its premises to appropriate disposal or
recycling facilities at least as frequently as collection is required
for such self hauler by the City Manager.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.01.100 Placement of Rates on Tax Rolls.

In order to ensure the uniform collection of rates charged by
franchisees for solid waste handling service, the City Council may, by
resolution, request that collection of such rates be placed on the
County of San Bernardino Tax Assessor's Tax Rolls.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.01.101 Mandatory Commercial Recycling Program.

   A.   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

      1.   “Business” means any commercial or public entity that
generates four cubic yards or more of Commercial Solid Waste per week.
Business includes, but is not limited to: a firm, partnership,
proprietorship, joint-stock company, corporation, or association that is
organized as a for-profit or nonprofit entity, strip mall, industrial
facility, school, school district, special district, or a federal,
State, local, or regional agency or facility. Business also includes any
Multi-Family Residential Dwelling.

      2.   “Commercial Solid Waste” means and includes all types of
solid waste, including recyclable materials that are discarded from
Businesses, but does not include waste from single family residences or
multi-family residential dwellings of less than five units.

      3.   “Multi-Family Residential Dwelling” means any residential
dwelling property with five or more units in the City, regardless of the
amount of Commercial Solid Waste it generates.

      4.   “Source Separate” means the process of removing recyclable
materials from solid waste at the place of generation, prior to
collection, and placing them into separate containers that are
separately designated for recyclables.

   B.   Requirements. Every Business within the City shall reuse,
recycle, compost, or otherwise divert its Commercial Solid Waste from
disposal by taking one, or any combination, of the following actions:

      1.   Source Separate recyclable materials from solid waste being
discarded, and subscribe with the City's franchise hauler for pickup of
recyclable materials separately from solid waste.

      2.   Source Separate recyclable materials from solid waste being
discarded, and self-haul recyclable materials to a certified Materials
Recovery Facility (“MRF”) or other mixed waste processing facility.

   C.   Multi-Family Residential Dwellings. To comply with the
requirements of this Section, property owners of Multi-Family
Residential Dwellings may require tenants to Source Separate their
recyclable materials. Tenants of Multi-Family Residential Dwellings
shall be required to Source Separate their recyclable materials, upon
reasonable request by the property owner.

   D.   Enforcement.

      1.   Any Business that violates this Section shall be subject to
the penalties provided by AMC section 8.01.110, subdivisions (B) through
(D).

      2.   Each Business shall be responsible for ensuring and
demonstrating its compliance with the requirements of this Section.

      3.   Each Business shall provide satisfactory proof of acceptable
levels of waste diversion to the City, upon reasonable request by the
City Manager or the City Manager's designee.

      4.   Nothing in this Section shall prevent or limit the existing
right of any Business to donate, sell, or otherwise dispose of its
recyclable materials pursuant to Public Resources Code section 41952.

[APUA Ord. No. 5, Section 2, 6/28/17]

8.01.110 Violations.

   A.   Unauthorized Containers. In addition to any other penalties
and/or remedies as set forth in this chapter or provided for by law, any
container placed within the City for the collection of solid waste in
violation of Section 08.01.070 (hereinafter "Unauthorized Container(s)")
may be impounded as set forth herein.

      1.   The City Manager may cause a notice to be placed in a
conspicuous place on any unauthorized container directing that it be
removed. The notice shall specify the nature of the violation and shall
state that the bin, drop-off box, trailer or waste receptacle must be
removed within twenty-four (24) hours or it may be removed and stored by
the City, and the contents disposed of, at the expense of the owner
thereof. The notice shall indicate the time that it was posted and shall
include the name and phone number of a person designated by the City to
hear any appeal or challenge to the requirement that the container be
removed; and, further, shall indicate that any appeal of the order for
removal must occur within twenty-four (24) hours of the posting of the
notice. The posting of a notice to remove shall constitute constructive
notice to the owner and user of the requirement to remove the
unauthorized container, and a copy of the notice shall be provided to
owner of the unauthorized container once said owners identity is
ascertained by City, and if not provided sooner, a copy of the notice
shall be provided at such time as the owner of the unauthorized
container seeks to retrieve any such container removed hereunder.

      2.   If within twenty-four (24) hours after a notice to remove is
posted on an unauthorized container a request for an appeal has not been
received and the bin, drop-off box, trailer or waste receptacle is not
removed, the City Manager may direct the removal and storage of the
unauthorized container. In addition, if the contents of the container is
either comprised of a substantial amount of petrusible solid waste, or
determined by the City Manager to create a threat to health and safety
if not disposed of immediately, the City Manager may direct that the
contents of the container be disposed of. The owner of the unauthorized
container shall be responsible to reimburse the City for the actual cost
of removal, storage and disposal. All amounts due to the City for the
cost of removal, storage and disposal must be paid before the
unauthorized container may be returned to the owner. Such amounts shall
constitute a debt owed by the owner to the City, and the owner shall be
liable to the City in an action brought by the City for the recovery of
such amounts.

      3.   Between the date following the date upon which any
unauthorized container is removed by the City, and the date which is
five (5) business days following its retrieval from City, the owner of
the unauthorized container may request a hearing to appeal the City's
determination that the container is an unauthorized container subject to
removal by City as set forth herein. The City Manager shall establish a
procedure for such a hearing and the method for requesting such a
hearing shall be included on the notice to remove. If the appeal is
granted, any payments due to City shall be forgiven and any amounts paid
reimbursed.

      4.   If the identity of the owner of an unauthorized container
that has been removed by the City is known to the City Manager, the City
Manager shall promptly cause a copy of the notice to remove to be mailed
to the owner along with a request that the owner to claim the stored
property. If the unauthorized container is not claimed within
ninety-five (95) days after mailing of the notice to the owner, or
ninety (90) days after removal if the identity of the owner is unknown
to the City Manager, the unauthorized container and its contents shall
be deemed abandoned property and may be disposed of accordingly. The
notice to be posted on unauthorized containers shall specify that the
forgoing procedure related to abandonment will apply.

   B.   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day, or any
portion thereof, of which any violation of any provision of this chapter
is committed, continued, or permitted by such person, and shall be
punishable as misdemeanor or an infraction, at the discretion of the
City Manager.

      1.   Penalty for Misdemeanor Violation. Any person convicted of a
misdemeanor under any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a
fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by
imprisonment in the City or County Jail for a period not exceeding six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.

      2.   Penalty for Infraction Violation. Any person convicted of an
infraction under any provision of this chapter shall be punished by:

         a.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a
first violation;

         b.   A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a
second violation of the same provision within one (1) year; and

         c.   A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
third and for any additional violation of the same provision within one
(1) year.

   C.   Violations Deemed to be a Public Nuisance. In addition to any
penalties otherwise imposed, any violation of the provisions of this
chapter is deemed to be a public nuisance which may be abated in the
manner provided by law for the abatement of nuisances.

   D.   Attorney Fees. In addition to any civil and criminal penalties
as provided by the provisions of this chapter or otherwise, the City may
recover reasonable attorneys' fees and court costs other such expenses
of litigation and/or prosecution as it may occur by appropriate suit at
law against the person found to have violated any provisions of this
chapter.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.01.120 Mandatory Commercial Organics Recycling Program.

   A.   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

      1.   "Business" means any commercial or public entity that
generates two (2) cubic yards or more of Commercial Solid Waste per
week. Business includes, but is not limited to: a firm, partnership,
proprietorship, joint-stock company, corporation, or association that is
organized as a for-profit or nonprofit entity, strip mall, industrial
facility, school, school district, special district, or a federal,
State, local, or regional agency or facility. Business also includes any
Multi-Family Residential Dwelling.

      2.   ''Commercial Solid Waste" means and includes all types of
solid waste, including organics and recyclable materials that are
discarded from Businesses, but does not include waste from single family
residences or Multi-Family Residential Dwellings of less than five (5)
units.

      3.   "Multi-Family Residential Dwelling" means any residential
dwelling property with five (5) or more units in the City that generates
two (2) cubic yards or more of Commercial Solid Waste per week.

      4.   "Organic Waste" means food waste, green waste, landscape and
pruning waste, nonhazardous wood waste, and food-soiled paper waste that
is mixed in with food waste.

      5.   "Source Separate" means the process of removing organics
recyclable materials from solid waste at the place of generation, prior
to collection, and placing them into separate containers that are
separately designated for organics recyclables.

   B.   Requirements. On or before February 1, 2021, every Business
within the City shall reuse, recycle, compost, or otherwise divert its
Commercial Solid Waste from disposal by taking one, or any combination,
of the following actions:

      1.   Source Separate organics recyclable materials from solid
waste being discarded, and subscribe with the City's franchise hauler
for pickup of organics recyclable materials separately from solid waste.

      2.   Source Separate organics recyclable materials from solid
waste being discarded, and self-haul organics recyclable materials to a
certified Materials Recovery Facility ("MRF") or other mixed waste
processing facility.

   C.   Multi-Family Residential Dwellings. To comply with the
requirements of this Section, property owners of Multi-Family
Residential Dwellings may require tenants to Source Separate their
organics recyclable materials. On or before February 1, 2021, tenants of
Multi-Family Residential Dwellings shall be required to Source Separate
their organics recyclable materials, upon reasonable request by the
property owner. Multi-Family Residential Dwellings are not required to
have a food waste diversion program.

   D.   Enforcement.

      1.   Any Business that violates this Section shall be subject to
the penalties provided by AMC Section 8.01.110, subdivisions (B) through
(D).

      2.   Each Business shall be responsible for ensuring and
demonstrating its compliance with the requirements of this Section.

      3.   Each Business shall provide satisfactory proof of acceptable
levels of waste diversion to the City, upon reasonable request by the
City Manager or the City Manager's designee.

      4.   Nothing in this Section shall prevent or limit the existing
right of any Business to donate, sell, or otherwise dispose of its
organics recyclable materials pursuant to Public Resources Code Section
41952.

[Ord. No. 620-A, 1/13/21.

CHAPTER 8.02
RECYCLING REQUIREMENTS FOR LARGE EVENTS AND LARGE VENUES

Sections:

   8.02.010   Definitions

   8.02.020   Purpose

   8.02.030   Application of Chapter to Large Events and Large Venues

   8.02.040   Waste Management Plan Requirements

   8.02.050   Review of Waste Management Plan

   8.02.060   Waste Management Compliance Reporting

   8.02.070   Actions by the City

   8.02.080   Penalty

8.02.010 Definitions.

For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section:

   A.   "Administrative Authority" shall mean the City Manager or his
authorized representative.

   B.   "Applicant" means any individual, firm, limited liability
company, association, partnership, political subdivision, government
agency, municipality, industry, public or private corporation, or any
other entity whatsoever who applies to the City for a permit, as defined
in this chapter, and who is, therefore, responsible for meeting the
requirements of this chapter.

   C.   "Large Event" means any large event that charges an admission
price or for which an applicant seeks temporary or periodic use or
occupancy in or on a public street, publicly owned site or facility or
public park within the City for a civic, commercial, recreational or
social event attended by more than two thousand (2,000) persons,
including workers, per day of operation.

   D.   "Large Venue" means a facility that annually seats or serves an
average of more than two thousand (2,000) individuals per day of
operation, including workers, such as, but not limited to, convention
centers, community centers, golf clubs, amusement parks, recreational
parks, theaters and concert halls located within the City and any other
facility or place that is a "venue facility" for purposes of Public
Resources Code Section 42648. For purposes of this chapter, a site under
common ownership or control that includes more than one (1) large venue
that is contiguous with other large venues in the site, is a single
large venue.

   E.   "Recycling" means the process of collecting, sorting, cleansing,
treating and reconstituting items that would otherwise be disposed of in
a landfill.

   F.   "Waste Management Plan" means a plan for reducing and managing
waste, submitted to the Administrative Authority for review in
compliance with this chapter.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.02.020 Purpose.

The City Council declares that the purpose of this chapter is to reduce
waste from large events and large venues by requiring those who operate
large events and large venues to develop and implement waste management
plans to reduce waste placed in landfills and to report diversion and
recycling to the City.

The following large events and large venues are subject to the
requirements of this chapter:

   A.   All events charging an admission price or for which an applicant
seeks temporary or periodic use or occupancy of a public street,
publicly owned site or facility or public park within the City for a
civic, commercial, recreational or social event attended by or
anticipated to be attended by an average of more than two thousand
(2,000) individuals per day of operation.

   B.   All venues that annually seat or serve an average of more than
two thousand (2,000) individuals per day of operation, including but not
limited to convention centers, community centers, golf clubs, amusement
parks, recreational parks, theaters and concert halls located with the
City.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.02.030 Application of Chapter to Large Events and Large Venues.

Large events and large venues shall meet the requirements of and shall
comply with all provisions of this chapter.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.02.040 Waste Management Plan Requirements.

   A.   All large event applicants shall develop and submit to the City
a waste management plan for reducing and recycling waste as part of the
application for a permit. The waste management plan shall include the
following information:

      1.   An estimate of the anticipated amount and type of waste
generated and material disposed and diverted from the event.

      2.   Proposed actions to reduce, reuse and recycle the amount of
waste generated from the event.

      3.   Arrangements for separation, collection and diversion from
landfills of reusable and recyclable materials.

   B.   All large venues shall develop and submit to the City a waste
management plan on an annual basis on or before January 1 of each year.
The waste management plan shall include the following:

      1.   An estimate of the amount and type of waste generated and
material disposed and diverted from the venue.

      2.   The existing solid waste reduction, reuse and recycling
programs that the operator of the large venue utilizes.

   C.   All large event applicants and large venue operators shall, on
or before July 1, 2008, and on or before July 1, biennially thereafter,
meet with recyclers and waste service providers of the large event or
large venue to determine the appropriate waste reduction programs to
meet the requirements of this chapter.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.02.050 Review of Waste Management Plan.

   A.   Time for Review. A waste management plan shall be approved or
rejected no later than twenty (20) business days after a complete
application is made for a large event and or a waste management plan is
submitted for a large venue.

   B.   Approval. The Community Development Director or designee may
approve the plan subject to conditions reasonably necessary to meet the
standards of this chapter and may consult with the City's solid waste
hauler concerning the viability of the Waste Management Plan and
compliance by large events and large venues with diversion requirements.

   C.   Rejection. If the Administrative Authority rejects the waste
management plan, the grounds for rejection shall be clearly stated in
writing.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.02.060 Waste Management Compliance Reporting.

Within thirty (30) days of receiving a written request for information
from the City, the large event or large venue operator shall provide a
written report to the administrative authority containing the following
documentation:

   A.   A listing of waste reduction, reuse, recycling and diversion
programs implemented for the event or venue.

   B.   The type and weight of materials diverted and disposed at the
event or venue.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.02.070 Actions by the City.

   A.   When issuing a permit to an operator of a large event or large
venue, the City shall provide information to the operator that can be
implemented to reduce, reuse and recycle solid waste materials generated
at the event or venue and provide contact information about where solid
waste materials may be donated, recycled or composted. This information
may include, but is not limited to, providing information directing the
operator of the large event or large venue to the California Integrated
Waste Management Board, or any successor agency ("CIWMB") Web site or
any other appropriate Web site.

   B.   As part of the City's annual report submitted pursuant to
Section 41821 of the California Public Resources Code to the CIWMB City
shall include an estimate and description of the top ten percent (10%)
of its large events and large venues based upon the amount of solid
waste generated at such events and venues as submitted by operators of
large events and large venues. To the extent that the information is
readily available to the City, the information shall include the name,
location and a brief description of the event or venue, a brief
description of the types of wastes generated, types and estimated amount
of materials disposed and diverted by weight, and existing solid waste
reduction, reuse and recycling programs that the operator of the large
event or large venue utilizes to reduce, reuse and recycle the solid
waste.

   C.   The City may charge and collect a fee from an operator of a
large event or large venue in an amount to be established by resolution
of the City Council to recover the City's estimated costs incurred in
complying with this chapter.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

8.02.080 Penalty.

In addition to any other available penalties and/or remedies, any event
or venue identified under this chapter as a large event or large venue
not complying with the waste management plan approved by the
administrative authority may be subject to waste audits by the City or
its designated representatives or contractors at the expense of the
operator of the large event or large venue. Based on such audits, the
City may require additional processing of solid waste generated by the
event or venue at an additional cost to the operator to meet the
diversion goals of the City.

[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]

CHAPTER 8.05
RECYCLING AND DIVERSION OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION (C&D) WASTE

Sections:

   8.05.010   Findings, Purpose and Intent

   8.05.020   Definitions

   8.05.030   Diversion Requirement

   8.05.040   Diversion Requirement Exemption

   8.05.050   Thresholds for Covered Projects

   8.05.060   Waste Management Plan (WMP)

   8.05.070   Deposit Required

   8.05.080   On-Site Practices

   8.05.090   Reporting

   8.05.100   Penalties; Fines

   8.05.110   Appeals

   8.05.120   Option to Revise

   8.05.130   Fees

8.05.010 Findings, Purpose and Intent.

   A.   The City Council is committed to protecting the public health,
safety, welfare of the public, and the environment; and

   B.   In order to meet these goals, it is necessary that the City
promote the reduction of solid waste and reduce the stream of solid
waste going to landfills; and

   C.   Under California law, as embodied in the California Waste
Management Act of 1989 (California Public Resources Code Sections 40000
et seq.), the City is required to prepare, adopt and implement source
reduction and recycling plans to reach landfill diversion goals, and is
required to make substantial reductions in the volume of waste materials
going to landfills, or face fines up to ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) per day; and

   D.   Waste from construction, demolition, and renovation of buildings
represents a significant portion of the volume of waste presently coming
from the City, and much of this waste is particularly suitable for
recycling and reuse; and

   E.   The City’s commitment to the reduction of waste requires the
establishment of programs for recycling and salvaging of construction
and demolition (“C&D”) waste; and

   F.   The purpose of this Chapter is to reduce landfill waste by
requiring an Applicant for every “Covered Project” to divert
construction and demolition debris resulting from that project in
compliance with State and local statutory goals and policies and to
create a mechanism to secure compliance with the stated diversion
requirements.

8.05.020 Definitions.

For the purposes of this Chapter the following definitions apply:

   A.   “Applicant” means any individual, firm, limited liability
company, association, partnership, political subdivision, government
agency, municipality, industry, public or private corporation, or any
other entity whatsoever who applies to the City for the applicable
permits to undertake any construction, demolition, or renovation project
within the City.

   B.   “City-Sponsored Project” means a project constructed by the City
or a project receiving fifty percent (50%) or more of its financing from
the City.

   C.   “Contractor” means any person or entity holding, or required to
hold, a contractor’s license of any type under the laws of the State of
California, or who performs (whether as contractor, subcontractor or
owner-builder) any construction, demolition, remodeling, or landscaping
service relating to buildings or accessory structures in the City.

   D.   “Construction” means the building of any facility or structure
or any portion thereof including any tenant improvements to an existing
facility or structure.

   E.   “Construction and Demolition Material” (C&D Material) means
building materials and solid waste resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair, cleanup, or demolition operations that are not
hazardous as defined in California Code of Regulations, Title 22,
Sections 66261.3 et seq. This term includes, but is not limited to,
asphalt, concrete, Portland cement, brick, lumber, gypsum, wallboard,
cardboard, and other associated packaging, roofing material, ceramic
tile, carpeting, plastic pipe and steel. The material may be commingled
with rock, soil, tree stumps, and other vegetative matter resulting from
land clearing and landscaping for construction or land development
projects.

   F.   “Conversion Rate” means the rate set forth in the standardized
Conversion Rate Table approved by the City pursuant to this Chapter for
use in estimating the volume or weight of materials identified in the
Waste Management Plan.

   G.   “Covered Project” shall have the meaning set forth in Section
8.05.050.

   H.   “Deconstruction” means the careful dismantling of buildings and
structures in order to salvage as much material as possible.

   I.   “Demolition” means the decimating, razing, ruining, tearing down
or wrecking of any facility, structure, pavement or building, whether in
whole or in part, whether interior or exterior.

   J.   “Deposit” means any performance bond, surety bond, money order,
letter of credit, certificate of deposit, or restricted bank account,
provided to the City in accordance with City requirements and/or State
law.

   K.   “Disposal” means the final deposition of construction and
demolition or inert material, including but not limited to:

      1.   Stockpiling onto land of construction and demolition material
that has not been sorted for further processing or resale, if such
stockpiling is for a period of time greater than thirty (30) days, or

      2.   Stockpiling onto land of construction and demolition material
that has been sorted for further processing or resale, if such
stockpiling is for a period of time greater than one (1) year, or

      3.   Stockpiling onto land of inert material that is for a period
of time greater than one (1) year, or

      4.   Disposal of construction and demolition or inert material to
a landfill.

   L.   “Divert” means to use material for any purpose other than
disposal in a landfill or transformation facility.

   M.   “Diversion Requirement” means the diversion of at least fifty
percent (50%) of the total C&D Material generated by a Project via reuse
or recycling, unless the Applicant has been granted an Exemption
pursuant to Section 8.05.040, in which case the Diversion Requirement
shall be the maximum feasible diversion rate established by the Waste
Management Plan Compliance Official in relation to the project.

   N.   “Inert Disposal Facility/Inert Waste Landfill” means a disposal
facility that accepts only inert waste such as soil and rock, fully
cured asphalt paving, uncontaminated concrete (including fiberglass or
steel reinforcing rods embedded in the concrete), brick, glass, and
ceramics, for land disposal.

   O.   “Inert Solids/Inert Waste” means non-liquid solid resources
including, but not limited to, soil and concrete, that do not contain
hazardous waste or soluble pollutants at concentrations in excess of
water quality objectives established by a regional Water Board pursuant
to Division 7 (Sections 13000 et seq.) of the California Water Code and
does not contain significant quantities of decomposable solid resources.

   P.   “Mixed Material” means loads that include commingled recyclables
and non-recyclable materials generated at the project site.

   Q.   “Mixed Material Recycling Facility” means a processing facility
that accepts loads of mixed construction and demolition debris for the
purpose of recovering reusable and recyclable materials and disposing
the non-recyclable residual materials.

   R.   “Project” means any activity, which requires an application for
a building or demolition permit, or any similar permit from the City.

   S.   “Recycling” means the process of collecting, sorting, cleansing,
treating, and reconstituting materials for the purpose of using the
altered form in the manufacture of a new product. Recycling does not
include burning, incinerating, or thermally destroying solid waste.

   T.   “Renovation” means any change, addition or modification in an
existing structure.

   U.   “Reuse” means the use, in the same or similar form as it was
produced, of a material which might otherwise be discarded.

   V.   “Salvage” means the controlled removal of C&D Material from a
permitted building or construction site for the purposes of recycling,
reuse, or storage for later recycling or reuse.

   W.   “Separated for Reuse” means materials, including commingled
recyclables, that have been separated or kept separate from the solid
waste stream for the purpose of additional sorting or processing those
materials for reuse or recycling in order to return them to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused, or reconstituted
products which meet the quality standards necessary to be used in the
marketplace, and includes Source Separated Materials.

   X.   “Source Separated Materials” means materials that are sorted at
the site of generation by individual material type including commingled
recyclable materials for the purpose of recycling i.e., loads of
concrete that are source separated for delivery to a recycling facility.

   Y.   “Waste Hauler” means a company that possess a valid permit from
the City to collect and transport solid wastes from individuals or
businesses for the purpose of recycling or disposal under the City’s
name.

   Z.   “Waste Management Plan” (“WMP”) means a completed Waste
Management Plan form, approved by the City for the purpose of compliance
with this Chapter, submitted by the Applicant for any Covered or
Non-covered Project.

   AA.   “Waste Management Plan Compliance Officer” (“WMP Compliance
Officer”) means the Public Works Director or his/her designee.

8.05.030 Diversion Requirement.

It is required that at least fifty percent (50%) of waste tonnage from
construction, demolition, and renovation waste shall be diverted from
disposal.

8.05.040 Diversion Requirement Exemption.

   A.   Application. If an Applicant for a Covered Project experiences
circumstances that the Applicant believes make it infeasible to comply
with the Diversion Requirement, the Applicant may apply for a Diversion
Requirement exemption at the time that he/she submits the WMP required
under Section 8.05.060 of this Chapter.

   B.   Meeting with Compliance Official. The WMP Compliance Official
shall review the information supplied by the Applicant and may meet with
the Applicant to discuss feasible ways of meeting the Diversion
Requirement. Based on the information supplied by the Applicant, the WMP
Compliance Official shall determine whether it is feasible for the
Applicant to meet the Diversion Requirement.

   C.   Granting of Exemption. If the WMP Compliance Official determines
that it is infeasible for the Applicant to meet the Diversion
Requirements, he/she shall determine the maximum feasible diversion rate
for waste generated by the project and shall indicate the new Diversion
Requirement the Applicant shall be required to meet, and will inform the
Applicant in writing of the new requirement. The Applicant shall
resubmit another WMP, which is in compliance with the new Diversion
Requirement. If the Applicant fails to resubmit, or if the resubmitted
WMP does not comply with Section 8.05.060 herein, the WMP Compliance
Official shall disapprove the WMP in accordance with Section 8.05.060.

8.05.050 Thresholds for Covered Projects.

   A.   Covered Projects (Construction and Renovation). All construction
and renovation projects within the City that are one thousand (1,000)
square feet or greater shall comply with this Chapter, shall submit a
WMP prior to commencing any construction or demolition activities, and
shall be subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Failure to comply
with any of the terms of this Chapter shall subject the Project
Applicant to the full range of enforcement mechanisms set forth in
Section 8.05.100.

   B.   Covered Projects (Demolition). All demolition projects within
the City that are one thousand (1,000) square feet or greater shall
comply with this Chapter, shall submit a WMP prior to commencing any
demolition activities, and shall be subject to the provisions of this
Chapter. Failure to comply with any of the terms of this Chapter shall
subject the project applicant to the full range of enforcement
mechanisms set forth in Section 8.05.100.

   C.   Non-Covered Projects (Construction and Renovation). Applicants
for construction and renovation projects within the City whose projects
are less than one thousand (1,000) square feet are not required, but
shall be encouraged, to divert at least twenty-five percent (25%) of all
project-related construction and demolition waste.

   D.   Non-Covered Projects (Demolition). Applicants for demolition
projects within the City whose projects are less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet are not required, but shall be encouraged, to divert
at least twenty-five percent (25%) of all project-related demolition
waste.

   E.   City-Sponsored Projects (Construction and Renovation). All
City-sponsored construction and renovation projects that are one
thousand (1,000) square feet or greater, shall be considered “Covered
Projects” for the purposes of this Chapter, shall submit a WMP prior to
beginning any construction or demolition activities, and shall be
subjected to the provisions of this Chapter. City sponsored construction
and renovation projects that are less than one thousand (1,000) square
feet shall be considered Non-covered Projects and are not required, but
shall be encouraged, to divert at least twenty-five percent (25%) of all
project-related construction and demolition waste.

   F.   City-Sponsored Projects (Demolition). All City-sponsored
demolition projects that are one thousand (1,000) square feet or
greater, shall be considered “Covered Projects” for the purposes of this
Chapter, shall submit a WMP prior to beginning any demolition
activities, and shall be subjected to the provisions of this Chapter.
City sponsored demolition projects that are less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet shall be considered Non-covered Projects and are not
required, but shall be encouraged, to divert at least twenty-five
percent (25%) of all project-related construction and demolition waste.

   G.   Deconstruction/Recovery Interval for Covered Demolition
Projects. Every Covered demolition project shall be made available for
deconstruction, salvage, and recovery prior to demolition. It shall be
the responsibility of the Applicant to recover the maximum feasible
amount of designated recyclable and reusable materials prior to
demolition. In order to provide sufficient time for deconstruction,
salvage, and recovery, no demolition may take place until a period of
fifteen (15) working days has elapsed from the date of issuance of the
demolition permit. Recovered and salvaged designated recyclable and
reusable material from every project shall qualify to be counted in
meeting Diversion Requirements of Section 8.05.030. Recovered or
salvaged designated recyclables and reusable materials may be given away
or sold on the premises, or may be removed to reuse facilities for
storage or sale.

   H.   Compliance with this Chapter shall be listed as a condition of
approval on any building or demolition permit issued for a Covered
Project.

   I.   Exemptions. A diversion deposit and a WMP shall not be required
for the following projects:

      1.   Work for which a building or demolition permit is not
required.

      2.   Roofing projects that do not include tear-off of existing
roof.

      3.   Work for which only a plumbing, only an electrical, or only a
mechanical permit is required.

      4.   Seismic tie-down projects.

      5.   Projects where no structural building modifications are
required.

      6.   Emergency demolition required to protect public health and
safety.

NOTE : While not required, it shall be encouraged, that at least
twenty-five percent (25%) of all otherwise exempt project-related
construction and demolition waste from Exempt projects be diverted.

8.05.060 Waste Management Plan (WMP).

   A.   Prior to starting a covered project, every Applicant shall
submit a properly completed WMP to the WMP Compliance Official, in a
form as prescribed by that Official, as a portion of the building or
demolition permit process. The completed WMP shall contain the
following:

      1.   The estimated volume or weight of project waste to be
generated by material type;

      2.   The maximum volume or weight of such materials that can be
feasibly be diverted via Reuse or Recycling by material type;

      3.   The vendor(s) that the Applicant proposes to use to haul
Source Separated Recyclables and the method of hauling C&D Waste, either
the City’s licensed franchised solid waste collector or the Applicant’s
in house staff and equipment as noted below.

      4.   Facility(ies) the materials will be hauled to and their
expected diversion rates by material type;

      5.   Estimated volume or weight of construction and demolition
waste that will be disposed.

   B.   It is unlawful for any person other than the City’s licensed
franchised solid waste collector to collect or haul any C&D Waste within
the City except:

      1.   Source Separated Recyclables (e.g., wood, scrap metals, new
drywall scrap), which consist of materials that have been separated from
general C&D Waste for the express purpose of recycling. Loads consisting
of recyclable materials that contain more than ten percent (10%) of
residual (non-recyclable) materials shall not be considered source
separated recyclable; or,

      2.   Construction and Demolition Waste that is:

         a.   Removed from a premises by a licensed contractor as an
incidental part of a total construction, remodeling or demolition
service offered by that contractor, and

         b.   Directly loaded onto a fixed body vehicle and hauled
directly to a transfer station or disposal facility.

   C.   Because actual material weights are not available in this stage,
estimates are used. In estimating the volume or weight of materials as
identified in the WMP, the Applicant shall use the standardized
conversion rates approved by the City for this purpose. Approval of the
WMP as complete and accurate shall be a condition precedent to the
issuance of any building or demolition permit. If the Applicant
calculates the projected feasible diversion rate as described above, and
finds the rate does not meet the diversion goal, the Applicant must then
submit information supporting the lower diversion rate. If this
documentation is not included, the WMP shall be deemed incomplete.

      1.   Approval. No building or demolition permit shall be issued
for any Covered Project unless and until the WMP Compliance Official has
approved the WMP. Approval shall not be required, however, where
emergency demolition is required to protect public health or safety. The
WMP Compliance Official shall only approve a WMP if he/she determines
that all of the following conditions have been met:

         a.   The WMP provides all of the information set forth in this
Section.

         b.   The WMP indicates that fifty percent (50%) of all C&D
Waste generated by the project shall be diverted (or new diversion goal
set in accordance with the Applicant’s approved Diversion Exemption
request); and

         c.   The Applicant has submitted an appropriate Deposit for the
project (if a deposit is required by this Chapter).

      2.   Non-Approval. If the WMP Compliance Official determines that
the WMP is incomplete or fails to indicate that at least fifty percent
(50%) (or new diversion goal set in accordance with the Applicant’s
approved Diversion Exemption request) of all C&D Waste generated by the
project will be diverted, he/she shall either:

         a.   Return the WMP to the Applicant marked “Disapproved,”
including a statement of reasons, and will notify the building
department, which shall then immediately stop processing the building or
demolition permit application; or

         b.   Return the WMP to the Applicant marked “Further
Explanation Required.”

8.05.070 Deposit Required.

As a condition precedent to the issuance of any permit for construction
or demolition for a Covered Project, the Applicant shall post a deposit
(cash, letter of credit, performance or surety bond, money order) in the
amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each estimated one hundred (100)
square feet of project size or any part thereof, but not less than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00). The deposit shall be returned, without interest, in total
or prorated, upon proof of satisfaction by the WMP Compliance Official
that no less than the required percentage of construction and demolition
waste tonnage generated by the Covered Project has been diverted from
disposal and has been recycled or reused or stored for later reuse or
recycling. If a lesser percentage of construction and demolition waste
tonnage than required is diverted, a proportionate share of the deposit
shall be returned. The deposit shall be forfeited entirely or to the
prorated extent that there is a failure to comply with the requirements
of this Chapter. The City may, by formal resolution, modify the amount
of the required deposit.

8.05.080 On-Site Practices.

During the term of the Covered Project, the Applicant shall recycle and
reuse the required percentage of waste, and keep records of the tonnage
or other measurements approved by the City that can be converted to
tonnage amounts. The WMP Compliance Official will evaluate and may
monitor each Covered Project to determine the percentage of waste
salvaged and recycled or reused from the covered project. For Covered
Projects including both construction and demolition, diversion of
materials shall be tracked and measured separately. To the maximum
extent feasible, project waste shall be separated on-site if this
practice increases diversion. For construction and/or demolition
projects, on-site separation shall include salvageable materials (e.g.,
appliances, fixtures, plumbing, metals, etc.) and dimensional lumber,
wallboard, concrete and corrugated cardboard.

8.05.090 Reporting.

   A.   Within fifteen (15) working days following the completion of the
demolition phase of a Covered Project, and again within fifteen (15)
days following the completion of the construction phase of a Covered
Project, the Applicant shall, as a condition precedent to final
inspection and to issuance of any certificate of occupancy or final
approval of project, submit documentation to the WMP Compliance Official
that proves compliance with the requirements of Sections 8.05.060 and
8.05.030. The documentation shall consist of a final completed WMP
showing actual waste tonnage data, supported by original or certified
photocopies of receipts and weight tags or other records of measurement
from recycling companies, deconstruction contractors, and/or landfill
and disposal companies. Receipts and weight tags will be used to verify
whether waste generated from the Covered Project has been or is to be
recycled, reused, salvaged or disposed. The Applicant shall make
reasonable efforts to ensure that all designated recyclable and reuse
waste salvaged or disposed is measured and recorded using the most
accurate method of measurement available.

   B.   To the extent practical, all construction and demolition waste
shall be weighed in compliance with all regulatory requirements for
accuracy and maintenance. For construction and demolition waste for
which weighing is not practical due to small size or other
considerations, a volumetric measurement shall be used. For conversion
of volumetric measurements to weight, the Applicant shall use the
standardized conversion rates approved by the City for this purpose. If
a Covered Project involves both demolition and construction, the report
and documentation for the demolition project must be submitted and
approved by the WMP Compliance Official before issuance of a building
permit for the construction phase of a Covered Project. Alternatively,
the Applicant may submit a letter stating that no waste or recyclable
materials were generated from the Covered Project, in which case this
statement shall be subject to verification by the WMP Compliance
Official. Any deposit posted pursuant to Section 8.05.070 shall be
forfeited if the Applicant does not meet the timely reporting
requirements of this Section.

8.05.100 Penalties; Fines.

   A.   Each person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with any of
the requirements of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the
provisions of Title 1 of this Code and State law.

   B.   Each person, firm or corporation shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day during any portion of which any violation
of any provision of this Chapter is committed, continued or permitted by
such person and shall be punishable accordingly.

   C.   Each violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall
constitute a public nuisance and be subject to abatement as such,
pursuant to the provisions of this Title. The costs of abatement of any
such nuisance shall be a lien upon the property involved.

8.05.110 Appeals.

The Applicant or any interested person may appeal a decision of the WMP
Compliance Official made pursuant to this Chapter to the City Council by
filing a written appeal with the City Clerk, within ten (10) business
days from the date of the ruling of the WMP Compliance Official.
Determinations subject to appeal would include, but not necessarily be
limited to: (1) the granting or denial of an exemption; (2) whether the
Applicant has acted in good faith; and (3) the amount of deposit to be
released. The City Council shall render its decision after the close of
the appeal hearing and its decision shall be final, subject to review
pursuant to Sections 1094.6 et seq. of the Code of Civil Procedure.

8.05.120 Option to Revise.

Beginning one (1) year from the effective date of this Chapter, the City
will evaluate the effectiveness of this Chapter in reducing the amount
of C&D Waste disposed. In this determination, the City will consider
issues such as the amount of C&D Waste disposed, volume of C&D activity,
markets for C&D waste, and other barriers encountered by Applicants. If
the City determines the C&D disposed had the potential for diversion,
then the City Council may amend these provisions and implement the
necessary measures to divert more C&D Waste.

8.05.130 Fees.

As a condition precedent to issuance of any permit for a building or a
demolition permit that involves the production of solid waste destined
to be delivered to a landfill, the Applicant shall pay to the City a
cash fee sufficient to compensate the City for all expenses incurred in
administering the permit. The amount of this fee shall be determined in
accordance with the then current resolution of the City Council
determining the same.

[Ord. No. 420, adopted 8/25/04.]

CHAPTER 8.10
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS

Sections:

   8.10.010   Hazardous Waste Management Siting Requirements

   8.10.020   Hazardous Materials Release Response Plans and Inventory

   8.10.030   Underground Storage of Hazardous Substances

8.10.010 Hazardous Waste Management Siting Requirements.

   A.   All land use decisions, whether determined by City staff, City
consultants, the various boards and commissions of the City, or the City
Council shall, in all applicable respects, conform to the County of San
Bernardino Hazardous Waste Management Plan as approved by the State of
California Department of Health Services.

   B.   The City retains the authority to attach appropriate conditions
to the issuance of any land use permit for a hazardous waste facility in
order to protect the public health, safety and welfare; and further, the
City retains the authority to establish more stringent planning
requirements or siting criteria than those specified in the County of
San Bernardino Hazardous Waste Management Plan.

   C.   Severability. The City Council declares that, should any
provision, section, paragraph, sentence or word of the San Bernardino
County Hazardous Waste Management Plan adopted be rendered or declared
invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction or by reason of any
preemptive legislation, the remaining provisions, sections, paragraphs,
sentences or words of the San Bernardino County Hazardous Waste
Management Plan adopted shall remain in full force and effect.

8.10.020 Hazardous Materials Release Response Plans and Inventory.

   A.   The City does assume responsibility for the implementation of
the provisions of Cal. Health and Safety Code, Div. 20, Ch. 6.95, being
§§ 25500 through 25546.5, and designates the Adelanto Fire Department as
the administering agency responsible for administering and enforcing
such provisions of said Chapter 6.95 within the boundaries of the City.

   B.   The schedule of fines and imprisonment set forth in California
Health and Safety Code Section 25515 shall continue to be specifically
applicable to persons and businesses within the boundaries of the City.

   C.   The definitions, standards, procedures and requirements as set
forth in Chapter 6.95 of the California Health and Safety Code, and the
specific guidelines adopted thereunder, are adopted as those regulations
governing hazardous materials release response plans and inventory for
the City.

   D.   The City Council shall establish by resolution a schedule of
fees to be paid by persons using or handling hazardous materials which
are sufficient to cover the costs to the City of administering the
provisions of this Section.

   E.   If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Section is
for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of
any court of competent jurisdiction or preempted by state legislation,
such decision or legislation shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Section. The City Council declares that it
would have passed this Section and each and every subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without regard
to any such decision or preemptive legislation.

8.10.030 Underground Storage of Hazardous Substances.

   A.   The City does assume responsibility for the implementation of
the provisions of Cal. Health and Safety Code, Div. 20, Ch. 6.7, being
§§ 25280 - 25299.8, and designates the Adelanto Fire Department as the
administering agency responsible for administering and enforcing such
provisions of said Chapter 6.7 within the boundaries of the City.

   B.   The definitions, standards, procedures and requirements as set
forth in Cal. Health and Safety Code, Div. 20, Ch. 6.7, being §§ 25280 -
25299.8, and the specific guidelines adopted thereunder, are adopted as
those regulations governing the underground storage of hazardous
substances within the City.

   C.   The City Council shall establish by resolution a schedule of
fees to be paid by persons using or handling hazardous substances in
underground storage containers which are sufficient to cover the costs
to the City of administering the provisions of this Section.

   D.   If any Subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Section is
for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of
any court of competent jurisdiction or preempted by state legislation,
such decision or legislation shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Section. The City Council declares that it
would have passed this Section and each and every Subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without regard
to any such decision or preemptive legislation.

CHAPTER 8.15
VEHICLE ABATEMENT AND REMOVAL

Sections:

   8.15.010   Authority

   8.15.020   Definitions

   8.15.030   Public Nuisances

   8.15.040   Exceptions

   8.15.050   Chapter Supplement to Existing Law

   8.15.060   Prohibited Uses

   8.15.070   Duty to Abate

   8.15.080   Emergency Abatement and Other Services

   8.15.090   Abatement Procedures for Vehicles which are a Public
Nuisance

   8.15.120   Payment for Abatement of Abandoned Vehicles

   8.15.130   Disposal of Vehicles which are a Public Nuisance

   8.15.140   Abatement Procedures for Vehicles which are Abandoned

   8.15.150   Abatement Procedures for Abandoned Vehicles which are
Valued at Greater than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00)

   8.15.160   Procedure for Redemption of Vehicles

   8.15.170   Authorization to Enforce Vehicle Code Provisions

   8.15.180   Determination of Estimated Value of Vehicles

8.15.010 Authority.

   A.   Pursuant to the authority cited in this Code, California Vehicle
Code Sections 22660 and 22669, California Government Code Section 25845,
and the authority granted by the State and California Constitution art.
XI, Section 7, the City Council authorizes the City Manager and his/her
designated employees to enforce the provisions of this Chapter relating
to abatement and removal of vehicles. This authority includes the right
to enter private or public property for the purposes specified in this
Chapter, to examine a vehicle or parts thereof, to obtain information as
to the identity of a vehicle and remove or cause the removal of a
vehicle or part thereof declared to be a nuisance.

   B.   Any person interfering with or refusing entry to property to any
City or contracted service employee performing duties under this Chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon arrest and conviction, shall
be punished by a fine not in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00),
and imprisonment of not more than ninety (90) days, or both. This
includes all attempts to retrieve, remove or relocate vehicles at the
onset of or during the abatement and removal process by the County
and/or its contractors.

8.15.020 Definitions.

For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases are
defined and shall be construed as hereinafter set forth, unless it is
apparent from the context that a different meaning was intended. Any
gender reference to “his” shall include “her.”

   A.   “Attractive Nuisance” means any condition which may prove
detrimental to a person under eighteen (18) of age that could result in
bodily harm or involuntary confinement to said person, whether in a
building, on the premises of a building, or on an unoccupied lot. This
may include but not be limited to any abandoned wells, shafts,
basements, excavations, abandoned refrigerators and motor vehicles; or
any structurally unsound fences or structures; or any lumber, trash,
fences, debris or vegetation which may prove a hazard for inquisitive
minors.

   B.   “Building Code” is the Uniform Building Code promulgated by the
International Conference of Building Officials, as adopted by this
jurisdiction.

   C.   “Code Enforcement Action” means any action undertaken for the
enforcement of this Chapter. A code enforcement action or proceeding for
the abatement of a public nuisance is commenced when a notice of public
nuisance is issued.

   D.   “Code Enforcement Officer” means the Building Official for the
City or his/her designee in the enforcement of any provision of this
Chapter.

   E.   “Code Violation” means violation of this Chapter.

   F.   “Congregate Residences” is any building or portion thereof which
contains facilities for living, sleeping and sanitation, as required by
this Code, and may include facilities for eating and cooking, for
occupancy by other than a family. A congregate residence may be a
shelter, convert, monastery, dormitory, fraternity or sorority house but
does not include jails, hospitals, nursing homes, hotels or lodging
houses.

   G.   “Efficiency Dwelling Unit” is a dwelling unit containing only
one (1) habitable room.

   H.   “Electrical Code” is the National Electrical Code promulgated by
the National Fire Protection Association, as adopted by this
jurisdiction.

   I.   “Hot Water” is hot water supplied to plumbing fixtures at a
temperature of not less than one hundred ten (110) degrees Fahrenheit
(F).

   J.   “Inoperative Vehicle” is any vehicle that is missing any part,
component, or equipment that would prevent the vehicle from being
driving under its own power or prevent said vehicle from being operated
legally and safely on a highway, roadway, or public street, or any
vehicle not currently licensed, smog certified, and/or registered. A
non-operational vehicle is an inoperable vehicle and shall be stored in
an enclosed garage.

   K.   “Lodging House” is any building or portion thereof containing
not more than five (5) guest rooms where rent is paid in money, goods,
labor or otherwise.

   L.   “Mechanical Code” is the Uniform Mechanical Code promulgated by
the International Conference of Building Officials, as adopted by this
jurisdiction.

   M.   “Owner” means the person in whom is vested the ownership or
title of real property as evidenced by official records of the San
Bernardino County Assessor’s or Recorder’s office, or the City of
Adelanto.

   N.   “Person” means any individual, receiver, trustee, principal,
agent, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind, or any combination thereof.

   O.   “Personal Property” means everything that is the subject of
ownership, not coming under the definition of real property,

   P.   “Plumbing Code” is the Uniform Plumbing Code, as adopted by this
jurisdiction.

   Q.   “Public Nuisance” means, unless otherwise indicated, any
unlawful condition, use or activity as set forth in the Codes and
ordinances of the City of Adelanto.

   R.   “Responsible Person” means the person, who a code enforcement
official believes, is causing, performing, permitting to exist or
otherwise maintaining, a public nuisance and includes the owner of the
real property involved and tenant, occupant or user thereof, or any
other person in real or appearance charge or control of said real
property.

   S.   “Tenant” means a person who, pursuant to a lease, rental
agreement or other contractual right, has possession or use, or the
right to possession or use, of real property or structures thereon.

   T.   “Vehicle” is any device by which any person or property may be
propelled, moved or drawn, excepting a device moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.

8.15.030 Public Nuisances.

Pursuant to the determination made, and the authority granted by the
State under California Vehicle Code Section 22660 to abate and remove
abandoned, dismantled, inoperative, junked, and wrecked vehicles, and or
parts thereof as public nuisances, and in accordance with the City’s
constitutional police power authority, the City Council makes the
following findings and declaration:

The accumulation and storage of dismantled, wrecked, inoperative,
junked, abandoned vehicles or parts thereof, on private or public
property (other than streets and highways which are regulated by the
Vehicle Code) is found to create a condition tending to reduce the value
of private and public property, to promote blight and deterioration, to
invite plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive
nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors, to create
a harborage for rodents and insects and to be injurious to the health,
safety and general welfare of the public. Therefore, the presence of
abandoned, dismantled, inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicles or parts
thereof on private or public property (other than on streets, public
roadways, alleys, rights-of-way and highways) in the City limits of
Adelanto except as expressly permitted in this Chapter, is declared to
constitute a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance
with the provisions of this Chapter.

8.15.040 Exceptions.

This Chapter shall not apply to any vehicle or parts thereof which is
completely enclosed within a building consisting of four (4) walls and
roof in a lawful manner, where such vehicle is not visible from the
street or other public or private property or a vehicle or parts thereof
which is stored or parked in a lawful manner on property used in
connection with the business of a licensed dismantler, garage, vehicle
dealer or junkyard. This exception shall not authorize the maintenance
of a public or private nuisance as defined under the provisions of law
other than this Chapter.

8.15.050 Chapter Supplement to Existing Law.

This Chapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, dismantled,
inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicles or parts thereof, or public
nuisances within the City. It shall supplement and be in addition to the
other regulatory codes, statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereafter
enacted by the City, the State, or any other legal entity or agency
having jurisdiction.

8.15.060 Prohibited Uses.

Any abandoned, dismantled, inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicles or
parts thereof, or fully or partially disassembled vehicles (including
vehicles without hoods, fenders, engines, body panels, headlights, trunk
lids, wheels, windows or windshields) when placed or kept for more than
seventy-two (72) hours in residential, commercial or industrial sites
(except licensed vehicle impound storage yards, garages, vehicle
dealers, junkyards and/or dismantling yards), and visible from outside
the parcel of land upon which such is or are kept, is prohibited and
constitutes a violation of this Chapter.

8.15.070 Duty to Abate.

No person shall cause, permit, maintain, conduct or otherwise allow an
abandoned, dismantled, inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicle or parts
thereof to be openly stored, within the City. It shall be the duty of
every owner and/or occupant, in control of any land located within the
City to remove, abate, and prevent the recurrence of open storage of
such a vehicle. Any recurrence of such condition of a specific vehicle
on the same property may be deemed a continuation of the original
condition and additional notification requirements under Sections
8.15.090 and 8.15.170 shall not be required.

8.15.080 Emergency Abatement and Other Services.

   A.   Emergency Abatement. When a vehicle defined by this Chapter as a
public nuisance constitutes an immediate hazard or threat of harm and
the situation calls for abatement sooner than the abatement procedures
herein allow, code enforcement or the Police Department may take or
cause emergency removal of such nuisance with such notice to parties
concerned, or without notice, as the particular circumstances reasonably
allow. Required notification procedures prior to disposal of such
vehicle(s) shall be followed.

   B.   Request for Service. If any member of the public, except self
storage operators, requests code enforcement in writing to remove
abandoned, dismantled, inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicles or parts
thereof, code enforcement is authorized to provide processing and
removal for a fee which covers all code enforcement costs. The removed
abandoned, dismantled, inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicles or parts
thereof, through transfer of title or lien sale process shall become the
property of the City and such will be the responsibility of the City to
dispose of according to law.

   C.   Complaints. Code enforcement will investigate anonymous
complaints associated with abandoned, dismantled, inoperative, junked or
wrecked vehicles or parts thereof. The complaint may be by telephone or
in writing and must have situs address and/or assessor parcel number
with a description of the violation. The process referring to “notice of
intent to abate and remove” will be utilized for abatement if such is
determined to be appropriate.

8.15.090 Abatement Procedures for Vehicles Which are a Public Nuisance.

   A.   A ten (10) day “notice of intent to abate and remove” shall be
given to the property owner to remove the vehicle or parts thereof, as a
public nuisance, unless the property owner and the owner of the vehicle
have signed releases authorizing removal and waiving further interest in
the vehicle or part thereof. Notification shall be given either by
personal delivery or posting the property, and shall be mailed by
registered or certified mail addressed to the property owner at his/her
last known business or residence address as the same appears in the
public records of the last equalized assessment roll, and to the last
registered and/or legal owner of the vehicle by registered or certified
mail to the last address listed with the Department of Motor Vehicles.
If such a vehicle is in such condition that identification numbers are
not available to determine ownership, notice need not be given to the
last registered and/or legal owner of the vehicle.

   B.   The notice shall be substantially as follows:

      “You are hereby notified to abate this public nuisance by removal
of the vehicle(s) or parts thereof within ten (10) days from the date of
mailing of this notice. If you fail to do so, the public nuisance and
such dismantled, wrecked, junked, inoperative, abandoned vehicles or
parts thereof, will be abated and removed by the City’s Code Enforcement
Department and/or contract services and all the costs for abatement and
removal, together with administrative costs, may be assessed to the
legal owner of the land on which the public nuisance and such
dismantled, junked, abandoned, inoperative vehicle or parts thereof are
located.”

   C.   The notice shall also set forth the procedures and time period
for filing an appeal. The notice shall contain a statement of the
hearing rights of the owner of the property on which the vehicle is
located and of the owner of the vehicle. The statement shall include
notice to the property owner that he/she may appear in person at a
hearing or may submit a sworn statement denying responsibility for the
presence of the vehicle on the land, with his/her reasons for such
denial, in lieu of appearing.

   D.   If the nuisance is not abated and a request for hearing has not
been received within the time period given in the notice, code
enforcement is authorized to abate the nuisance.

   E.   A “notice of intent to abate and remove” shall not be required
for removal of a vehicle or parts thereof which is inoperable due to the
absence of a motor, transmission or wheels and incapable of being towed;
is valued at less than two hundred dollars ($200.00); and is determined
to be a public nuisance presenting an immediate threat to public health
or safety; provided, that the property owner has signed a release
authorizing removal and waiving further interest in the vehicle or parts
thereof. Notice of intent to dispose of the vehicle or parts thereof
shall be provided to the last registered and legal owners prior to final
disposition. If the vehicle or parts thereof are not claimed and removed
within twelve (12) days after the notice is mailed, code enforcement may
authorize disposal of the vehicle and parts thereof. This Subsection
shall only apply to inoperable vehicles located upon a parcel that is
either zoned for agricultural use or is not improved with a residential
structure containing one (1) or more dwelling units.

   F.   Notice shall be given to the Department of Motor Vehicles within
five (5) days after the date of removal of vehicles under this Section,
identifying the vehicle or parts thereof and any evidence of
registration available, including, but not limited to, the registration
card, certificates of ownership or license plates.

   G.   No vehicle which has been abated or removed as a public nuisance
shall thereafter be reconstructed or made operable unless it is a
vehicle which qualifies for either horseless carriage license plates or
historical vehicle license plates.

   H.   Code enforcement and/or contract services shall not be liable
for damage caused to a vehicle or parts thereof by removal pursuant to
this Section.

8.15.120 Payment for Abatement of Abandoned Vehicles.

The abandonment of any vehicle on public or private property shall
constitute a prima facie presumption that the last registered owner of
record is responsible for the abandonment and is thereby liable for the
cost of removal and disposition of the vehicle. The City Manager and
his/her designated employees shall present to the registered owner of
the vehicle a demand for payment of the costs required for removal and
disposition of the vehicle, not to exceed those for towing and seven (7)
days of storage. If payment is not made on behalf of the registered
owner of the vehicle within sixty (60) days after mailing of such bill,
the building official may issue an abandoned vehicle citation and/or
notify the Department of Motor Vehicles.

8.15.130 Disposal of Vehicles Which are a Public Nuisance.

If a vehicle and parts thereof are removed from a property as a public
nuisance, the vehicle or parts thereof shall be disposed of by removal
to a scrap yard, licensed automobile dismantler’s yard or any suitable
site determined by code enforcement for processing as scrap.

8.15.140 Abatement Procedures for Vehicles Which are Abandoned.

   A.   If an abandoned vehicle and parts thereof are removed from a
property and the estimated value of the vehicle is three hundred dollars
($300.00) or less, a notice which states that the vehicle will be
removed by code enforcement shall be securely attached to the vehicle
not less than seventy-two (72) hours before the vehicle is removed.
Immediately after removal of the vehicle, code enforcement and/or
contract services shall notify the Stolen Vehicle System of the
Department of Justice in Sacramento of the removal.

   B.   Within forty-eight (48) hours of the removal, excluding weekends
and holidays, a notice shall be sent to the registered and legal
owner(s) of the vehicle by registered or certified mail to the last
address listed with the Department of Motor Vehicles, and to any other
person known to have an interest in the vehicle. This notice shall
include the following information:

      1.   The name, address and telephone number of code enforcement;

      2.   The location of the place of storage and description of the
vehicle which shall include, if available, make, license plate number,
vehicle identification number and mileage;

      3.   The authority and purpose for removing the vehicle;

      4.   A statement that the vehicle will be disposed of fifteen (15)
days from the date of the notice;

      5.   A statement that the owner(s) and interested person(s), or
their agent(s), have an opportunity for a post-storage hearing if the
request is made in person, in writing, or by telephone within ten (10)
days from the date of the notice;

      6.   Any requested hearings shall be conducted by the City Manager
or a duly authorized designee, who shall act as the hearing officer, on
the question of abatement and removal of the vehicle or parts thereof as
an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle, and/or the
assessment of the administrative costs and the cost of removal of the
vehicle or parts thereof against the property on which it is/was
located.

   C.   Failure of either the registered or legal owner(s) or interested
person(s) or their agent(s) to request or to attend a scheduled hearing
shall satisfy due process post-storage hearing requirements.

   D.   If, after fifteen (15) days from the notification date, the
vehicle remains unclaimed and the towing and storage fees have not been
paid, and if no request for a post-storage hearing was made or a
post-storage hearing was not attended, code enforcement may authorize
disposal of the vehicle.

   E.   If the names and addresses of the registered and legal owner(s)
of the vehicle are not available from the records of the Department of
Motor Vehicles, code enforcement may authorize disposal of the vehicle
at any time after the removal.

   F.   Disposal of the vehicle may only be to a licensed dismantler or
scrap iron processor. A vehicle disposed of pursuant to this Section
shall not be reconstructed or made operable, unless it is a vehicle
which qualifies for either horseless carriage or historical vehicle
license plates.

8.15.150 Abatement Procedures for Abandoned Vehicles Which are Valued at
Greater than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00).

After the abatement and removal process described in Section 8.15.140
has occurred, and the post-storage notification requirements described
in Section 8.15.140 have been met, a lien sale will be conducted on
every removed, abandoned vehicle with a value of over three hundred
dollars ($300.00), and such sale will be carried out if all fees and
costs for the removal, storage and application for lien sale have not
been paid and the vehicle has not been redeemed by the registered or
legal owner of the vehicle. Once legal ownership has been transferred to
the City by lien sale, the vehicle(s) or parts thereof will be sold on a
regular scheduled date by an auction or other authorized, legal method
permitted for the City.

8.15.160 Procedure for Redemption of Vehicles.

   A.   A vehicle which is valued at three hundred dollars ($300.00) or
less, and which has been removed from a property by code enforcement
and/or contract services as an abandoned vehicle, may be redeemed by the
registered or legal owner of the vehicle after payment of reasonable
removal and storage costs, excluding lien sale costs, within fifteen
(15) days of the mailing date of notification of removal.

   B.   A vehicle which is valued at three hundred dollars ($300.00) or
less, and which has been removed from a property by code enforcement
and/or contract services as a public nuisance, may be redeemed by the
registered or legal owner of the vehicle after payment of reasonable
removal, storage and lien sale costs within ten (10) days of the date of
removal.

   C.   A vehicle which is valued at greater than three hundred dollars
($300.00), and which has been removed from a property by code
enforcement and/or contract services, may be redeemed by the registered
or legal owner of the vehicle after payment of reasonable removal,
storage and lien sale costs, within fifteen (15) days of the mailing
date of notification of removal if abated as an abandoned vehicle and
within thirty (30) days of removal if abated as a public nuisance.

   D.   In no case shall the costs charged to the legal or registered
owner for removal and disposition of an abandoned vehicle under this
Section exceed those for towing and seven (7) days storage.

8.15.170 Authorization to Enforce Vehicle Code Provisions.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, the City Manager
and his or her designated employees, and the code enforcement officer(s)
of the City are authorized to remove abandoned and unattended vehicles
pursuant to the provisions of Vehicle Code Section 22669. In exercising
this authority, they shall follow all procedural and legal requirements
applicable to said provisions.

8.15.180 Determination of Estimated Value of Vehicles.

For lien sale purposes, the code enforcement officer shall determine the
estimated value of vehicles and maintain proper documentation and give
notifications as required by the California Vehicle Code with respect to
vehicles which are abated and removed under this Chapter. Code
enforcement shall determine whether the estimated value of vehicle that
has been ordered removed, towed or stored is three hundred dollars
($300.00) or less; or over three hundred dollars ($300.00) but less than
or equal to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00); or over one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). All regularly employed and salaried employees of
code enforcement (including contract employees) are authorized to make
appraisals to determine the value of vehicles abated or removed under
this Chapter.

CHAPTER 8.20
WATER CONSERVATION PLAN

Sections:

   8.20.010   Findings

   8.20.020   Purpose

   8.20.030   Water Regulations

   8.20.040   Exceptions

   8.20.050   Penalties; Fine

   8.20.060   Violations of Chapter Declared a Nuisance

8.20.010 Findings.

The City Council finds that by reason of the overdraft of the water
table from which the City takes its domestic water supply, and because
of the current problem existing with respect to the over use of the
waste of water in connection with the irrigation of landscape and other
outdoor vegetation, lawns and other growth, it is necessary to adopt and
enforce a water conservation plan to conserve the water supplies of the
City for the greatest public benefit with particular regard to domestic
use, sanitation, and fire protection; and it is the intent of the City
Council to achieve at least an approximately ten percent (10%) reduction
in water use.

8.20.020 Purpose.

The City finds that certain water uses regulated or prohibited in this
Chapter are non-essential and if allowed would constitute waste of
water.

8.20.030 Water Regulations.

   A.   No water user within the City shall knowingly make, cause, use,
or permit the use of water for residential, commercial, industrial,
agricultural or any other purpose in the manner contrary to any
provision of this Chapter and the City’s Landscape Water Conservation
Ordinance.

   B.   All water users in the City shall abide by the following water
conservation measures:

      1.   The use of water for any purpose shall not result in flooding
or unnecessary runoff in gutters, driveways, streets or adjacent lands.

      2.   Lawns, trees, shrubs, and other landscaping shall not be
watered beyond what they need for growth and to sustain life, and water
shall not be permitted to pool or to run off property onto streets or
adjacent land.

      3.   Sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking areas, patios,
porches or verandas or any other like area shall not be washed off with
water from hoses or by any other means. The exception to this shall be
the washing of flammable or other similar dangerous substances that
require direct hose flushing using recognized safety control measures
for the benefit of the public health and safety. Notification to the
City of such wash down is required.

      4.   Water, sprinkling, aerial watering or irrigating of any
landscaped or vegetated areas, including lawns, trees, shrubs, grass,
ground cover, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, flowers, or other
landscaping shall not occur between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
during the months of April through September; provided, however, that
these restrictions shall not apply to hand-held hose or drip irrigation
systems or to establishment of new lawns, landscaping, or gardens.

      5.   Non-commercial washing of privately owned vehicles, trailers,
motor homes, buses, boats and mobile homes is prohibited except from a
bucket, and except that a hose equipped with an automatic shut-off
nozzle may be used for a quick rinse.

      6.   Water shall not be used to clean, fill, operate or maintain
levels in decorative fountains unless such water is for replenishment of
a recycling system.

      7.   Water lines, faucets, and other facilities shall be
maintained so that they do not leak water. Existing leaks shall be
repaired in a timely manner.

      8.   Restaurants, other food establishments, or other public
places where food is served, shall not routinely provide glasses of
drinking water to customers unless specifically requested by the
customer.

      9.   Water for construction purposes including, but not limited
to, debrushing of vacant land, compaction of fills and pads, trench
backfill and other construction uses, shall be used in an efficient
manner. The use of aerial type sprinklers is not recommended but, if
used, shall not be operated between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.

      10.   All new residential, commercial and industrial construction
shall be equipped with low-flush toilets and low-flow showers and
faucets.

      11.   Water used for cooling systems must be recycled to the
extent possible.

      12.   Evaporation resistant covers are required for all new
swimming pools and hot tubs and are encouraged to be installed for
existing pools. The covers required by this Chapter shall, at the time
of purchase, installation and all subsequent maintenance, meet or exceed
current standards and specifications for swimming pool, spa and hot tub
covers adopted by the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM).

      13.   Hotels/motels are required to post a notice in substantially
the form provided by the City urging guests to conserve water.

      14.   All current and future water customers are encouraged to
install flow restrictors or pressure reducers and to install toilet tank
displacement devices (dams, bottles or bags), and as appliances or
fixtures wear out, replace them with water-saving models.

      15.   Parks, schools, golf courses, cemeteries, school grounds and
all public use lands shall not irrigate between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m. during the months of April through September inclusive and
are encouraged to use water conservation irrigation equipment.

      16.   The use of drought tolerant or native plant material is
encouraged for exterior landscaping in all new residential construction,
and required for new commercial and industrial construction.

      17.   The use of low precipitation sprinkler heads, bubblers, drip
irrigation and timing devices are required in the exterior landscaping
in all new residential, commercial and industrial construction.

      18.   At least fifty percent (50%) of all new model homes shall
include as a part of the exterior landscape development low water use,
drought-tolerant or native plants.

      19.   Projects, including Commercial and Planned Unit
Developments, which utilize recycled water from sewage treatment or
agricultural operations, may receive an exemption from Subsections 15.
through 18. of this Section by approval of the City Council.

8.20.040 Exceptions.

The prohibited or restricted uses of water under this Chapter shall not
be applicable in those instances when the City Manager or his/her
designee finds: (1) the use is essential to avoid an undue hardship for
a water user; (2) special circumstances exist for a particular water
user, as distinguished from other water users, which justify allowing an
exception; (3) the use is essential for required government or public
utility services, including but not limited to police protection, fire
protection, sanitation, and other critical or emergency services; or (4)
the use is essential to maintain the public health and safety.

8.20.050 Penalties; Fine.

   A.   Any person who violates any provision or who fails to comply
with any of the requirement of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 1.20 of this Code.

   B.   In addition to, and separate from the criminal sanctions set
forth above, the first violation of provisions regarding storage,
placement and removal of residential solid waste containers and
receptacles (Sections 8.01.100.B. and 8.01.310.J.) shall receive a
written warning; for subsequent violations at the same address, a twenty
dollar ($20.00) civil fine shall be imposed and collected through the
Water and Sanitation bill.

8.20.060 Violations of Chapter Declared a Nuisance.

All violations of any portion of this Chapter are declared to be a
public nuisance and may be abated as such in the manner provided by law
and pursuant to Chapters 1.20 and 8.25 of this Code.

CHAPTER 8.25
PUBLIC NUISANCES

Sections:

   8.25.010   Purpose

   8.25.020   Unlawful Public Nuisances

   8.25.030   Abatement of Public Nuisance Generally

   8.25.040   Notification of Public Nuisance

   8.25.050   Administrative Hearing to Abate Nuisance

   8.25.060   Notice of Hearing

   8.25.070   Administrative Hearing by City Manager

   8.25.080   Abatement Procedure in Absence of Appeal

   8.25.090   Appeal Procedure - Hearing by City Council

   8.25.100   Decision by City Council

   8.25.110   Service of Order to Abate

   8.25.120   Hearing Procedure Before City Manager and City Council

   8.25.130   Abatement by City

   8.25.140   Filing of Judicial Action - Limitation

   8.25.150   Demolition Authorized When

   8.25.160   Notice of Intent to Demolish

   8.25.170   Cost Recovery

   8.25.180   [Repealed]

   8.25.190   [Repealed]

   8.25.200   [Repealed]

   8.25.210   [Repealed]

   8.25.220   [Repealed]

   8.25.230   Emergency Abatement - Authority - Notice

   8.25.240   Emergency Abatement - Notice to City Council

   8.25.250   Alternative Actions Available - Violation an Infraction

   8.25.260   Violation and Penalties - Enforcement Authority

8.25.010 Purpose.

Blight, consisting of fire hazards, polluted air and water, abandoned
vehicles and improperly maintained property, among others, creates an
unsightly appearance, creates a hazard to the public health, safety and
welfare, and is a nuisance. It is hereby declared to be in the public
interest to promote the public health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the City by providing a procedure for the abatement of
nuisances which shall be in addition to all other procedures allowed by
this Code or any other manner provided by law.

8.25.020 Unlawful Public Nuisances.

Each and every one of the following conditions or acts is declared to be
a public nuisance:

   A.   Trash and Debris. Accumulated trash and debris shall be declared
a public nuisance and shall not be kept, stored, or maintained by any
person owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge or possession of any
real property. It shall also be considered a public nuisance for any
person to dump, drop, bury, or otherwise dispose of trash and/or debris
on public or private property not under ownership of said person. Trash
and debris shall include, but not be limited to, boxes, containers,
broken or discarded furniture, household goods, appliances, inoperable
equipment and/or machine parts, clothing, cans, bottles, lumber, wood,
metals, garbage, rags, discarded bedding, plastics, tires, refuse,
animal wastes not picked up on a weekly basis, excessive amounts of yard
and tree trimmings, and any other material which interferes with the
neighbors’ reasonable enjoyment of their property.

      1.   Exceptions.

         a.   Materials safely stored within a legally permitted
structure not violating any other provisions of this Code;

         b.   Firewood (five [5] cords or less) stored on site for use
entirely by the building occupants on site;

         c.   Material storage permitted by other provisions of this
Code;

         d.   Materials which are bundled, boxed, or stored and waiting
for the next available removal by the franchised waste hauler;

         e.   Refuse or containers or receptacles for refuse placed in
the public street or right-of-way in accordance with Section 8.01.300.C.

   B.   Inoperative Vehicles. Inoperative vehicles as described in
Section 8.15.020 are declared a public nuisance and shall not be kept,
stored or maintained by any person owning, leasing, occupying or having
charge or possession of any real property. Inoperative vehicles shall
include the presence of any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative vehicle or parts thereof on public or private property, not
including highways. This Section shall not preclude any other legal
method enacted by the City or State to remove abandoned vehicles.

      1.   Exceptions.

         a.   Vehicles or parts completely enclosed within buildings
permitted for such use and not visible from the public right-of-way or
public or private property;

         b.   Vehicles or parts thereof, legally stored or parked on
private property in connection with a licensed vehicle dealer, licensed
dismantler, licensed junk dealer, or when such storage or parking is
necessary to the operations of a lawfully established business;

         c.   Not more than two (2) vehicles may be stored in a rear
yard area at least fifteen (15) feet from any residence, if not
encroaching within the building setback areas.

   C.   Health and Safety. The following health and safety concerns are
declared a public nuisance and shall not be kept, stored, maintained or
allowed by any person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge or
possession of any real property. Health and safety nuisances shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:

      1.   Open, unused, or abandoned wells, pools, ponds, pits, shafts,
and other unsafe and/or unsecured situations;

      2.   Manure or rubbish accumulations not disposed of on a weekly
basis;

      3.   Animal carcasses for animals not weighing more than one
hundred (100) pounds not buried or destroyed within twenty-four (24)
hours of the animal’s death. Animal carcasses for animals greater than
one hundred (100) pounds must be removed by or delivered to a licensed
disposal service within twenty-four (24) hours of the animal’s death;

      4.   Any hazardous or infectious material including, but not
limited to, explosives, dangerous substances, toxic substances, sewage,
human waste, gray water and infectious wastes, not kept with appropriate
permits. Gray water shall be used in compliance with State law;

      5.   Outdoor water usage causing water to run onto the public
right-of-way;

      6.   Breeding or harborage places for animals known to carry or
transmit disease to humans (e.g., mosquito breeding in stored tires
where rainwater can be trapped);

      7.   Trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons from having a clear view of traffic approaching an intersection
from cross streets in sufficient time to bring a motor vehicle driven at
a reasonable speed to a full stop before the intersection is reached;

      8.   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by
the public of streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under
such conditions as are provided by law;

      9.   Any use of property abutting upon a public street or sidewalk
or any use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of
people to gather, obstructing traffic and the free use of the streets
and sidewalks;

      10.   Other conditions or things which are likely to cause injuury
to the person or property of anyone, or which may be detrimental to
public health and safety as defined in the California Health and Safety
Code;

      11.   Outside storage of operable or inoperable refrigerators,
freezers, washing machines, dishwashers, televisions, clothes dryers or
other appliances;

      12.   Any pool, pond or body of water which contains excessive or
unhealthy levels of bacterial or algal growth, remains of animals or
insects, refuse, debris, or any other foreign matter which may cause an
unhealthy or unsafe condition.

   D.   Property Maintenance. Any property upon which any of the
following unpermitted conditions exists shall be deemed to be a public
nuisance:

      1.   Any grading or construction, including but not limited to
walls and fences, which increases, concentrates, or redirects storm
flows which can or may cause damage to adjacent or nearby public
property;

      2.   Any hole, trench, ditch, or excavation greater than two (2)
feet in depth with sides steeper than two (2) horizontal to one (1)
vertical (2:1);

      3.   Any attractive nuisance, where minors may obtain access and
be injured;

      4.   Improper maintenance of landscaping or irrigation systems,
including, but not limited to, any landscaping required as part of a
City land use approval (e.g., grass, rock, xeriscape);

      5.   Encroachment by any structure within required building
setbacks;

      6.   Overgrown or unmaintained vegetation that may cause detriment
to neighboring properties or may cause a hazardous condition for
motorists or pedestrians;

      7.   Dead or dying plants or trees which may be dangerous to the
public;

      8.   Any vehicle or trailer parked on or near the public
right-of-way for the primary purpose of advertising or directing
attention to a place of business. This shall not apply to the business
owner’s vehicle when located at his/her place of business;

      9.   A clothesline, or clothes, hanging in the front yard or on
fences in other yards;

      10.   Buildings, structures, walls or fences constructed of
materials not approved for exterior use or improperly maintained.
Improperly maintained may include but not be limited to listing from the
vertical axis, moveable with a lateral force of ten (10) pounds or less,
dilapidation or similar structural deficiency.

   E.   Dangerous Building; Substandard Housing. Any building or
structure which has any of the conditions described hereinafter shall be
deemed to be a dangerous building and a public nuisance:

      1.   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed,
exists or is maintained in violation of any specific requirements or
prohibition applicable to such building or structure provided by the
building regulations of the City, as specified in the Building Code or
Section 8.25.060 or of any law or ordinance of this State or
jurisdiction relating to the condition, location or structure of
buildings.

      2.   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used
for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation,
decay, damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air
or sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Health
Officer to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a
condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease.

      3.   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the
Fire Marshal to be a fire hazard.

      4.   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition as
to constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or in equity
jurisprudence.

      5.   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess
of six (6) months so as to continue such building or portion thereof an
attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.

      6.   Any building or structure used for the purpose of unlawfully
selling, serving, storing, keeping, manufacturing, or giving away any
controlled substance as specified in California Health and Safety Code
Section 11570.

      7.   Any building or structure wherein any activity declared
illegal or unlawful by any other applicable federal, State, County or
local law or ordinance is conducted, including but not limited to, gang
activity in California Penal Code Section 186.22(a).

   F.   Other Conditions Declared a Public Nuisance. The following
conditions shall be deemed to be and constitute a public nuisance:

      1.   Limbs of trees which are less than eight (8) feet above the
surface of any public street or sidewalk.

      2.   Loud noises and annoying vibrations.

      3.   Dangerous unguarded machinery in any public place or so
situated or operated on private property as to attract the public.

      4.   Use of stationary loudspeakers in any part of the City in
such a manner as to annoy City residents of businesses.

      5.   The giving of a report of the existence of any emergency to
any police officer, any City employee or to any other person, with the
intent or request that the same be transmitted to a City employee,
knowing such report to be false.

   G.   Any violation of this Code or any other unlawful condition is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance as set forth in Chapter 1.20 of
this Code.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 10, 5/10/17.]

8.25.030 Abatement of Public Nuisances Generally.

Any property found to constitute a public nuisance in violation of
Section 8.25.040 shall be abated by rehabilitation, removal, demolition,
or repair pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Chapter. The
procedures for abatement set forth in this Chapter shall not be
exclusive and shall not in any manner limit or restrict the City from
enforcing other City ordinances or abating public nuisances in any other
manner provided by law.

8.25.040 Notification of Public Nuisance.

Whenever the City Manager determines that all or any part of any
property within the City is being maintained contrary to one or more of
the provisions of Section 8.25.040, he shall give written notice (notice
to abate) to the owner of said property stating the section(s) being
violated. Such notice shall set forth a reasonable time limit, in no
event less than seven calendar days, for correcting the violation(s) and
may also set forth suggested methods of correcting the same. Such notice
shall be served upon the owner in accordance with provisions of Section
8.25.060 covering service in person or by mail.

8.25.050 Administrative Hearing to Abate Nuisance.

In the event said owner shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the
notice to abate, the City Manager shall conduct an administrative
hearing to ascertain whether the violation constitutes a public
nuisance.

8.25.060 Notice of Hearing.

Notice of said hearing shall be served upon the owner not less than
seven calendar days before the time fixed for hearing. The notice of
hearing shall be served in person, by first class mail, or by certified
mail to the owner’s last known address. Service shall be deemed complete
at the time notice is personally served or deposited in the mail.
Failure of any person to receive notice shall not affect the validity of
any proceedings hereunder. Notice shall be substantially in the format
set forth below:

“NOTICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING ON ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE”

This is a notice of hearing before the City Manager (or his/her
designees) to ascertain whether certain property situated in the City of
Adelanto, State of California, known and designated as (street address)
____________________________________ , in said City, and more
particularly described as (assessors parcel number)
__________________________ constitutes a public nuisance subject to
abatement by the rehabilitation of such property or by the repair or
demolition of buildings situated thereon. If said property, in whole or
part, is found to constitute a public nuisance as defined in Section
8.25.020 of the City of Adelanto Municipal Code, and if the same is not
promptly abated by the owner, such nuisance may be abated by municipal
authorities, in which case the cost of such rehabilitation, repair, or
demolition will be assessed upon such property and such costs, together
with interest thereon, will constitute a lien and special assessment
upon such property until paid; in addition, you may be cited for
violation of the provisions of the City ordinances and subject to a
fine.

Said alleged conditions consist of the following: ____________________

______________________________________________________________________________________________

The method(s) of abatement are: ________________________________

______________________________________________________________________________________________

All persons having an interest in said matters may attend the hearing
and their testimony and evidence will be heard and given due
consideration.

Dated this ______ day of ________________________, 20____.

____________________________

City Manager

Time and Date of Hearing: ____________________________________

Location of Hearing: ________________________________________ 

Ord. _______________________

[Ord. No. 568, Section 11, 5/10/17.]

8.25.070 Administrative Hearing by City Manager.

   A.   At the time stated in the notice, the City Manager shall hear
and consider all relevant evidence, objections or protests, and shall
receive testimony under oath relative to such alleged public nuisance
and to proposed rehabilitation, repair, removal or demolition of such
property. Said hearing may be continued from time to time.

   B.   If the City Manager finds that such public nuisance does exist
and that there is a sufficient cause to rehabilitate, demolish, remove
or repair the same, the City Manager shall prepare findings and an
order, which shall specify the nature of the nuisance, the method(s) of
abatement and the time within which the work shall be commenced and
completed. The order shall include reference to the right to appeal set
forth in Section 8.25.090. A copy of the findings and order shall be
served on all owners of the subject property in accordance with the
provisions of Sections 8.25.040 and 8.25.060. In addition, a copy of the
findings and order shall be forthwith conspicuously posted on or near
the property.

8.25.080 Abatement Procedure in Absence of Appeal.

In the absence of any appeal, the property shall be rehabilitated,
repaired, removed or demolished in the manner and means specifically set
forth in said findings and order. In the event the owner fails to abate
the nuisance as ordered, the City Manager shall cause the same to be
abated by City employees or private contract. The costs shall be billed
to the owner, as specified in Section 8.25.130. The City Manager or
representative is expressly authorized to enter upon said property for
such purposes.

8.25.090 Appeal Procedure - Hearing by City Council.

   A.   The owner may appeal the City Manager’s findings and order to
the City Council by filing an appeal with the City Clerk within seven
(7) calendar days of the date of service of the City Manager’s decision.
The appeal shall contain:

      1.   A specific identification of the subject property;

      2.   The names and addresses of all appellants;

      3.   A statement of appellant’s legal interest in the subject
property;

      4.   A statement in ordinary and concise language of the specific
order or action protested and the grounds for appeal, together with all
material facts in support thereof;

      5.   The date and signatures of all appellants; and

      6.   The verification of at least one appellant as to the truth of
the matters stated in the appeal.

   B.   As soon as practicable after receiving the appeal, the City
Clerk shall set a date for the Council to hear the appeal which date
shall be not less than seven (7) calendar days nor more than thirty (30)
calendar days from the date the appeal was filed. The City Clerk shall
give each appellant written notice of the time and the place of the
hearing at least five (5) calendar days prior to the date of the
hearing, either by causing a copy of such notice to be delivered to the
appellant personally or by mailing a copy thereof, postage prepaid,
addressed to the appellant at his address shown on the appeal.
Continuances of the hearing may be granted by the City Council on
request of the owner for good cause shown, or on the City Council’s own
motion.

8.25.100 Decision by City Council.

Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall determine
whether the property or any part thereof, as maintained, constitutes a
public nuisance. If the City Council so finds, it shall adopt a
resolution declaring such property to be a public nuisance, setting
forth its findings and ordering the abatement of the same by having such
property rehabilitated, repaired, removed or demolished in the manner
and means specifically set forth in said resolution. The resolution
shall set forth the time within which such work shall be completed by
the owner, in no event less than thirty (30) days. The decision and
order of the City Council shall be final.

8.25.110 Service of Order to Abate.

A copy of the resolution of the Council ordering the abatement of the
nuisance shall be served upon the owner(s) of the property in accordance
with the provisions of Section 8.25.060. Upon abatement in full by the
owner, the proceedings hereunder shall terminate.

8.25.120 Hearing Procedure Before City Manager and City Council.

   A.   All hearings shall be tape recorded.

   B.   Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules
of evidence.

   C.   Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or
explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in itself to
support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in civil
actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this State. Any relevant
evidence shall be admitted if it is the type of evidence on which
reasonable persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious
affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory rule
which might make improper the admission of such evidence over objection
in civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this State.

   D.   Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.

   E.   Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.

8.25.130 Abatement by City.

   A.   If such nuisance is not abated as ordered within said abatement
period, the City Manager shall cause the same to be abated by City
employees or private contract. The City Manager or representative is
expressly authorized to enter upon said property for such purposes. The
cost, including incidental expenses, of abating the nuisance shall be
billed to the owner and shall become due and payable thirty days
thereafter. The term “incidental expenses” shall include, but not be
limited to, personnel costs incurred in documenting the nuisance; the
actual expenses and costs of the City in the preparation of notices,
specifications and contracts, and in inspecting the work; and the costs
of printing and mailing required hereunder.

   B.   A person shall not obstruct, impede or interfere with the City
Manager, or his/her representative, or with any person who owns, or
holds any interest or estate in, any property in the performance of any
necessary act, preliminary to or incidental to, carrying out an
abatement order issued pursuant to Sections 8.25.070 and 8.25.100.

8.25.140 Filing of Judicial Action - Limitation.

Any action appealing the City Council’s decision and order shall be
commenced within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of service of the
decision.

8.25.150 Demolition Authorized When.

No property shall be found to be a public nuisance under Section
8.25.020 and ordered demolished unless the order is based on competent
sworn testimony and it is found that in fairness and in justice there is
no way other than demolition reasonably to correct such nuisance.

8.25.160 Notice of Intent to Demolish.

A copy of any order or resolution requiring abatement by demolition
under Section 8.25.070 or 8.25.110 shall be forthwith recorded with the
San Bernardino County Recorder.

8.25.170 Cost Recovery.

Pursuant to the procedures set forth in Chapter 1.22 of this Code, the
City is entitled to seek recovery of all nuisance abatement costs
incurred in connection with any action taken to abate any violation or
public nuisance under this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 12, 5/10/17.]

8.25.180 [Repealed].

8.25.190 [Repealed].

8.25.200 [Repealed].

8.25.210 [Repealed].

8.25.220 [Repealed].

8.25.230 Emergency Abatement - Authority - Notice.

Whenever any nuisance as defined herein constitutes an immediate hazard
to life, health or property and, in the opinion of the City Manager or
his/her designee, abatement must be undertaken immediately, the City
Manager may abate or cause to be abated all or any portion of the
nuisance as may be necessary to protect life, health or property after
giving such notice to the parties concerned as the circumstances will
permit or without any notice whatever when, in the opinion of the City
Manager or designee, immediate action is necessary.

8.25.240 Emergency Abatement - Notice to City Council.

Whenever an emergency abatement action is taken pursuant to Section
8.25.230, the City Manager or his/her designee shall submit to the City
Council a written report indicating the location of the nuisance and the
reasons requiring emergency abatement thereof. A copy of this report
shall be attached to or included as a part of notice to the owner of
record when notice is given as previously provided in this Chapter.

8.25.250 Alternative Actions Available - Violation an Infraction.

Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to prevent the City Council from
ordering the commencement of a civil proceeding to abate a public
nuisance pursuant to applicable law or from pursuing any other remedy
available under applicable law. Violation of the provisions of this
Chapter may be enforced pursuant to provisions of Chapter 1.20 of this
Code.

8.25.260 Violation and Penalties - Enforcement Authority.

   A.   Each person, firm or corporation shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day during any portion of which any violation
of any provision of this Chapter is committed, continued or permitted by
such person and shall be punishable accordingly.

   B.   The City Manager shall have the power to designate by written
order that particular officers or employees shall be authorized to
enforce particular provisions of this Chapter. Officers or employees so
designated shall have the authority to arrest persons who violate any of
said provisions.

CHAPTER 8.30
WEED AND LITTER ABATEMENT

Sections:

   8.30.010   Definitions

   8.30.020   Litter on Occupied Private Property

   8.30.030   Owner to Maintain Premises Free of Litter

   8.30.040   Litter on Vacant Lots

   8.30.050   Clearing of Dangerous Litter from Open Private Property;
Summary Proceeding

   8.30.060   Sidewalk and Parkway

   8.30.070   Noxious Growth

   8.30.080   Notice Requiring Removal of Noxious Growth or Litter, or
Fencing of Property

   8.30.090   Notice Form

   8.30.100   Hearing

   8.30.110   Abatement Order

   8.30.120   Service of Order

   8.30.130   Abatement by City

   8.30.140   Cost Recovery

   8.30.150   [Repealed]

   8.30.160   [Repealed]

   8.30.170   [Repealed]

   8.30.180   Violation a Public Nuisance

8.30.010 Definitions.

   A.   “City Officer” shall mean the City Manager or a designated
representative with respect to all public places and the Code
Enforcement Officer with respect to all private property.

   B.   “Litter” shall mean garbage, refuse, and rubbish as defined
herein and all other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as
herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public health, safety and
welfare.

   C.   “Private Premises” shall mean any dwelling, house, building, or
other structure, designed or used either wholly or in part for private
residential purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk,
driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to
such dwelling, house, building, or other structure.

   D.   “Rubbish” shall mean non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of
both combustible and non-combustible wastes such a paper, wrappings,
cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, metal, wood,
glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.

   E.   “Street Lines” shall mean the boundary line between a public
street right-of-way and an abutting lot or parcel of land, or between a
private street open to public use and an abutting lot or parcel of land.

8.30.020 Litter on Occupied Private Property.

No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property
within the City, whether owned by such person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
Such receptacles shall be maintained in compliance with Section 8.01.090
of this Title.

8.30.030 Owner to Maintain Premises Free of Litter.

The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter, provided, however, that this
Section shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private
receptacles for collection, or within any building when not in violation
of any health, fire, building, or other regulation, order, ordinance,
statute, or Code.

8.30.040 Litter on Vacant Lots.

No personal shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property whether owned by such person or not.

8.30.050 Clearing of Dangerous Litter from Open Private Property by the
City; Summary Proceeding.

   A.   Notice to Remove. The City Officer is hereby authorized and
empowered to notify the owner, or person shown as the owner upon the
last equalized tax assessment roll, of any open or vacant private
property, or the agent of such owner, to properly dispose of litter
located on such owner’s property which is dangerous to public health,
safety or welfare. Such notice shall be by registered or certified mail,
addressed to said owner at his last known address or at the address
shown upon the last equalized tax assessment roll. A copy of said notice
shall be posted on the premises or in front thereof.

   B.   Action Upon Non-Compliance. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal
of any owner, person or agent so notified to properly dispose of such
litter dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare within ten (10)
days after receipt of the written notice provided for in Subsection A.,
or within twenty (20) days after the date of such notice in the event
the same is returned to the City because of its inability to make
delivery thereof, provided the same was properly addressed as herein
specified, the City Officer is hereby authorized and empowered to pay
for the disposing of such littler or to order its disposal by the City.
Thereafter, proceedings for the collection of the cost thereof shall be
in accordance with Section 8.30.140 et. seq.

8.30.060 Sidewalk and Parkway.

No person, owing or having charge or control or occupancy of any lot or
private premises shall allow grass or weeds to accumulate or grow upon
any abutting paved sidewalk area above its established grade or upon any
part of said sidewalk area from curb to street line, provided, however,
that nothing herein contained shall be construed to require the removal
from the borders of any sidewalk of any ornamental plant, lawn, shrub,
or trees of reasonable growth, provided that the same area not, in the
opinion of the City Officer, obstructions to the free use of such
sidewalk by pedestrians.

8.30.070 Noxious Growth.

No person, owning or having control or charge or occupancy of any lot or
private premises, shall allow weeds, vines, shrubs or brush which bear
seeds of wingy or downy nature, which attain such a large growth as to
become afire menace when dry, or which contain poisonous oils, or which
are otherwise noxious or dangerous to the life, health, comfort or
convenience of the community, to grow or remain upon such lot or private
premises.

No person shall sow or disseminate, or allow or permit to mature; or
sell in any manner, transfer, transport or convey, any noxious weed or
any seed thereof.

No person owning, managing, or having charge or control of or occupancy
of any lot or private premises shall suffer or permit any weeds, grass,
rank growth or brush to grow or exist in excess of twelve (12) inches
above the grade in the area of growth. It is the duty of every such
person to prevent such growth or existence. In any prosecution for
violation of this Subsection, it shall not be necessary to establish any
facts excepting that the person accused owned, managed or had charge,
control or occupancy of a lot or private premises whereon such condition
existed, to establish the guilt of such person.

8.30.080 Notice Requiring Removal of Noxious Growth or Litter, or
Fencing of Property.

   A.   If and when it shall appear that weeds, vines, shrubs or brush,
grass, dry or dead tree cuttings or litter have been placed upon or are
upon or in front of private property, in violation of any of the
provisions of this Chapter, the City Officer may, by appropriate written
order, direct the abatement of such nuisance by removal thereof and
shall cause nuisance by removal thereof and shall cause notices to be
posted upon or in front of such property to the effect that such weeds,
vines, shrubs, brush, tree trimmings, rubbish, grass or litter shall be
removed within seven (7) days from and after the date of such posting.

   B.   In the case of vacant property only, in the event that any such
property is cited five (5) or more times within a period of five (5)
years or less for violations of this Chapter relating to litter placed
upon or being upon such property, the property shall be deemed to be a
chronic nuisance. Thereupon the City Officer may, by appropriate written
order, direct the owner of such property to abate such nuisance by
erecting a fence to secure the property against public access, in order
to prevent further such depositing of litter, and shall cause notices to
be posted upon or in front of such property to the effect that such
fence must be erected within seven (7) days from and after the date of
such posting. Such fence shall consist of, or be substantially similar
to, aluminum chain-link fence, six (6) feet in height, with wood or
aluminum vertical posts of at least the same height at intervals of not
more than ten (10) feet.

   C.   Such notice shall be conspicuously posted on or in front of the
property, as follows:

      1.   Two (2) notices are required to be posted for any parcel
having a frontage up to one hundred (100) feet;

      2.   If the frontage of such parcel is greater than one hundred
(100) feet, two (2) notices shall be posted, with one (1) additional
notice for each added fifty (50) feet of frontage.

         The City Officer shall also send a similar notice to the owner
of the property, as shown upon any City record or upon the last
equalized tax roll, whichever he shall determine to be the best means
for notifying the actual owner, through the United States mail. The
failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the power
of the City or its officers or employees to proceed as provided in this
part. Such notice shall be mailed not less than ten (10) days prior to
the date set for hearing upon objection as provided in Section 8.30.100.

8.30.090 Notice Form.

   A.   The notice required to be given pursuant to Subsection A. of
Section 8.30.080 shall be substantially as follows:

  ------------------------------------------------------------
  NOTICE TO DESTROY WEEDS AND RANK GROWTH AND TO REMOVE
  OVERSIZE GROWTH OR LITTER

  Notice is hereby given, pursuant to Section 8.30.080 of
  Chapter 8.30 of Title 8 of the Adelanto Municipal Code
  providing for the elimination of weeds, vines, brush, shrub,
  grass, tree trimmings, rubbish, or litter growing upon or
  accumulated upon or in front of this property, and
  obstructing the use of sidewalks, parking or streets, or
  dangerous or injurious to neighboring property or the health
  and welfare of residents of the vicinity, that the following
  conditions exist upon this property in violation of law:

  (Description of area and conditions)

  The Property to which this Notice applies is the following:

  (Description of property, by tax description, street
  address, lot number, parcel number of other reference
  sufficient to identify the premises)

  Said conditions subject the owners, managers or persons
  having charge, control or occupancy thereof to fine and
  imprisonment. In addition, such conditions constitute a
  public nuisance which must be abated by the removal thereof.
  Otherwise, such conditions will be corrected and the
  nuisance abated by the City. In such case, the cost of
  removal will be assessed upon the land from or in front of
  which the same are removed and will constitute a lien upon
  such land until paid. Reference is hereby made to Chapter
  8.30 of Title 8 of the Adelanto Municipal Code for further
  particulars.

  All property owners having any objections to the proposed
  removal of said weeds, rubbish, refuse, dirt, rank growths
  or other material dangerous or injurious to neighboring
  property as aforesaid, are hereby notified to file a written
  statement of such objections, specifying the address or
  description of the property concerned, the reasons for the
  objections, and the name, address, phone number (if any) and
  status (owner, manager, lessee, tenant or other) of the
  objector, which statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
  not later than the ________ day of __________________,
  20_______.

  Upon receipt of such written statement, the City Clerk will
  set such matter upon the agenda of the City Council and
  objectors will be notified by mail of the time and place of
  the meeting at which the City Council will hear and consider
  such objections. Such meeting shall be not sooner than seven
  (7) days after mailing of such notices.
  ------------------------------------------------------------

 

   B.   The notice required to be given pursuant to Subsection B. of
Section 8.30.080 shall be substantially as follows:

  ------------------------------------------------------------
  NOTICE TO ERECT FENCE

  Notice is hereby given, pursuant to Section 8.30.080 of
  Chapter 8.30 of Title 8 of the Adelanto Municipal Code
  providing for the elimination of litter accumulated upon
  this property, and dangerous or injurious to neighboring
  property or the health and welfare of residents of the
  vicinity, that the following record of citations exists with
  regard to this property:

  (Description of record of violations and citations)

  The property to which this notice applies is the following:

  (Description of property tax description, street address,
  lot number, parcel number or the reference sufficient to
  identify the premises)

  Such conditions subject the owners, managers or persons
  having charge, control or occupancy thereof to fine or
  imprisonment. In addition, such conditions constitute a
  public nuisance which must be abated by the erection of a
  fence conforming to the requirements of Section 8.30.080 of
  Chapter 8.30 of Title 8 of the Adelanto Municipal Code.
  Otherwise, such fence will be erected by the City, and the
  cost will be assessed upon the land upon which the fence is
  erected and will constitute a lien upon such land until
  paid. Reference is hereby made to Chapter 8.30 of Title 8 of
  the Adelanto Municipal Code.

  All property owners having any objection to the proposed
  erection of a fence are hereby notified to file a written
  statement of such objections, specifying the address or
  description of the property concerned, the reasons for the
  objections, and the name, address, phone number (if any) and
  status (owner, manager, lessee, tenant or other) of the
  objector, which statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
  not later than the ________ day of ______________, 20_____.

  Upon receipt of such written statement, the City Clerk will
  set such matter upon the agenda of the City Council and
  objectors will be notified by mail of the time and place of
  the meeting at which the City Council will hear and consider
  such objections. Such meeting shall be not sooner than seven
  (7) days after the mailing of such notices.
  ------------------------------------------------------------

 

8.30.100 Hearing.

At the time and place stated in the notices mailed by the City Clerk,
the City Council shall hear and consider all objections to the proposed
removal or correction of said public nuisance or conditions. It may
continue the hearing from time to time. By motion or resolution at the
conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall allow or overrule any
objections. The decision of the City Council shall be final and
conclusive and need not depend upon any particular evidence, showing or
findings.

8.30.110 Abatement Order.

At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council may order the City
Officer to abate the nuisance by entering upon private property to abate
and remove the same.

8.30.120 Service of Order.

The City Officer shall serve by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested, postage prepaid, a copy of said abatement order
forthwith upon those persons who have filed written statements of
objections. The abatement order shall specify that unless the nuisance
is removed and abated within seven (7) days from the date of the
mailing, said officer will abate the same and will, if necessary, enter
upon or into the private property of said person without further notice
or liability therefor in order to abate said nuisance.

8.30.130 Abatement by City.

The City Officer may enter upon any private property and abate any
nuisance found thereon, or in front thereof, more than seven (7) days
after Notice to Abate such nuisance has been posted as required by this
Chapter, if no person has filed a written statement of objections as
herein provided within five (5) days thereafter. In the event objections
have been duly filed, and overruled by the City Council, such officer
may enter upon any private property and abate any nuisance found
thereon, or in front thereof, in accordance with the order of the City.

8.30.140 Cost Recovery.

Pursuant to the procedures set forth in Chapter 1.22 of this Code, the
city is entitled to seek recovery of all nuisance abatement costs
incurred in connection with any action taken to abate any violation or
public nuisance under this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 14, 5/10/17.]

8.30.150 [Repealed].

8.30.160 [Repealed].

8.30.170 [Repealed].

8.30.180 Violation a Public Nuisance.

Violation of this Chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance
which may be abated as provided in Part 3 of Division 4 of the Civil
Code of the State and in Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil
Procedure of the State, which remedy shall be in addition to any other
remedy provided in this Chapter or by State law, including Section 372
of the Penal Code of the State.

[Ord No. 245, adopted 7/14/92.]

CHAPTER 8.35
COST RECOVERY ON SPECIAL INSPECTIONS

Sections:

   8.35.010   Findings

   8.35.020   Department Involvement

   8.35.030   Establishing Charges

   8.35.040   Cost Recovery

8.35.010 Findings.

   A.   The City Council has determined that it is necessary to recover
costs of City employees’ time when used by the City’s Building Official
in such a manner as necessary to carry out the functions of the Code
Enforcement Agency.

   B.   When it is necessary that such inspections be carried out in
order to preserve the health and safety of those residents residing
within the community that may be impacted.

   C.   That following an initial inspection and reinspection for
compliance, all further inspection costs shall be recovered on behalf of
the City.

   D.   The City Council determines that these added costs should not be
the responsibility of the resident taxpayers of the City of Adelanto.

   E.   No charge or fee established by this Chapter exceeds the
estimated amount required to provide the service for which the fee or
service charge is levied.

8.35.020 Department Involvement.

The Building Official shall be given unilateral discretion to deputize
such employees as may be necessary to carry out the functions of Code
Enforcement for the City of Adelanto. The departments shall include but
not be limited to the Fire Department, Police Department and Street
Department.

8.35.030 Establishing Charges.

   A.   Charges are hereby established on the hourly cost to the
jurisdiction. This cost may include the hourly wage and fringe benefits
of the employees involved.

   B.   The pay schedule to be used to compute the hourly wage shall be
that which is adopted annually by the City Council with each fiscal
year’s budget and identified as Wage Rate Schedule.

8.35.040 Cost Recovery.

Pursuant to the procedures set forth in Chapter 1.22 of this Code, the
City is entitled to seek recovery of all nuisance abatement costs
incurred in connection with any action taken to abate any violation or
public nuisance under this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 289, adopted 10/25/94; Ord. No. 568, Section 16, 5/10/17.]

CHAPTER 8.40
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL DWELLING UNIT INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM

Sections:

   8.40.010   Purpose and Findings

   8.40.020   Definitions

   8.40.030   Scope

   8.40.040   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection Program
Registration

   8.40.050   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection Program
Initial Phase

   8.40.060   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection Program Fees
and Penalties

   8.40.070   Inspections

   8.40.080   Local Contact Representative

   8.40.090   Self-Certification Program

   8.40.100   Refusal to Permit Inspection

   8.40.110   Retaliatory Eviction

   8.40.120   Change of Ownership

   8.40.130   Regulations Nonexclusive

   8.40.140   Appeals

   8.40.150   Conflicts

8.40.010   Purpose and Findings.

   A.   The City Council of the City of Adelanto recognizes that the
preservation of existing rental housing stock is of tremendous
importance as is ensuring future rental housing stock. Rental housing
provides needed, affordable housing for many and is a valuable asset
that must be preserved and maintained. The City has a significant
interest in ensuring that rental housing remains a desirable housing
option for its citizens.

   B.   Over time rental housing often deteriorates because of
intentional and unintentional neglect by property owners, managers and
tenants. This deterioration often results in substandard conditions that
adversely affect the economic values of neighboring structures, and that
are hazardous to the public health and safety. In many cases, property
owners choose not to make the necessary repairs because of cost, and
tenants do not report the deficiencies out of lack of knowledge or
because they fear being evicted for doing so.

   C.   The public interest demands that all rental housing properties
comply with the minimum standards regarding the health and safety of the
public. The most effective way to seek universal compliance with the
minimum standards is through routine periodic inspections of all rental
housing properties. Accordingly, it is the intent of the Adelanto City
Council to enact the provisions of this chapter as the basis for
establishing a rental housing inspection program aimed at securing
City-wide compliance of rental housing properties with minimum
standards. City-wide compliance will prevent blight and ensure that all
persons who live in rental housing units are provided decent, safe and
sanitary housing.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

8.40.020   Definitions.

   As used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases are defined
as follows:

   A.   "Building, housing and sanitation codes or ordinances" shall
refer to: the current adopted codes specified in Title 14 of the
Adelanto Municipal Code, the California Fire Code and International Fire
Code, all as modified, adopted and codified in the Adelanto Municipal
Code. The phrase "building, housing and sanitation codes or ordinances"
shall also refer to the City of Adelanto Zoning Ordinances as codified
at Title 17 of the Adelanto Municipal Code, the City of Adelanto
Subdivision Ordinances as codified at Title 16 of the Adelanto Municipal
Code, and all provisions of California statutory law and the Adelanto
Municipal Code pertaining to property-related sanitation, health, safety
and nuisance, as well as state regulations promulgated pursuant to
California statutory law, for which the City has enforcement authority.

   B.   "Director" shall refer to the City's City Manager or his/her
designee.

   C.   "Owner" shall mean any person who owns one (1) or more
residential rental dwelling units.

   D.   "Person" means and includes any individual, partnership of any
kind, corporation, limited liability company, association, joint venture
or other organization or entity, however formed, as well as trustees,
heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, or any combination of such
persons. The terms "person," "owner," "operator," and "landlord" may
herein be used interchangeably.

   E.   "Residential rental dwelling unit" shall mean a building or
portion of a building that is rented or leased to tenants for
residential purposes on a non-transient basis (when one (1) or more
tenants reside on the property or rent or lease the property for thirty
(30) consecutive days or longer) and which is owned in whole or in part
by a landlord. This shall include but not be limited to single-family
residences, duplexes, triplexes, apartment houses, townhouse dwellings,
condominiums, boarding houses, lodging houses, rooming houses, single
room occupancy units, small ownership units, hotel and motel units,
sober living facilities, and dormitories in the City of Adelanto.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

8.40.030   Scope.

   A.   The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all owners of one
(1) or more residential rental dwelling units located within the City of
Adelanto.

   B.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to: legal
accessory dwelling units, rooms rented to single individuals in an
owner-occupier single family residence, or hotel or motel units subject
to the transient occupancy tax ordinance codified at Chapter 3.40 of the
Adelanto Municipal Code.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15; Am. Ord. 543,
Section 2, 2/24/16.]

8.40.040   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection Program
Registration.

   A.   Each owner or operator, on behalf of the owner, shall initially
register for the residential rental dwelling unit inspection program on
a form provided by the City's Code Compliance Department. Initial
registration of residential rental dwelling units which are subject to
this Chapter shall be due within sixty (60) days of the effective date
of this Ordinance. Registration of residential rental dwelling units
which become subject to this Chapter after the effective date of this
Chapter shall be due within sixty (60) days of the date that the
residential rental dwelling unit was acquired or converted into a
residential rental dwelling unit.

   B.   All registrations shall be subject to verification by the
Director. All information on said registrations shall be submitted under
penalty of perjury. Any person who makes a false statement in the
registration or submits false information in connection with a
registration shall be guilty of an infraction.

   C.   Each owner or operator, on behalf of the owner, may apply for
the Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection and Maintenance
Self-Certification Program ("Self-Certification Program") after
completing an initial inspection on a form provided by the City's Code
Compliance Department.

   D.   Each owner shall obtain a City Business License and pay the
required fee required of Hotels, Motels, and Other Rental Units pursuant
to Adelanto Municipal Code Chapter 5.04.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

8.40.050   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection Program Initial
Phase.

   During the initial phase of the Residential Rental Dwelling Unit
Inspection Program, every residential dwelling unit shall be inspected
by City inspectors ("Program Initial Phase"). The City will endeavor to
inspect every residential dwelling unit within the first year after this
Chapter goes into effect or as soon as possible thereafter. During the
Program Initial Phase all other provisions of this Chapter, including
but not limited to registration requirements and Program fees will be in
effect. The Self-Certification Program will only be available for
residential dwelling units that successfully complete an initial
inspection.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

8.40.060   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection Program Fees and
Penalties.

   A.   Each annual registration for the residential rental dwelling
unit inspection program shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee in
the amount established by Resolution of the City Council. The fee shall
be used to defray the costs of the administration and enforcement of
this Chapter.

   B.   If a residential rental dwelling unit is approved in the
Self-Certification Program an annual self-certification fee in the
amount established by Resolution of the City Council will be required.
The fee shall be used to defray the costs of the administration and
enforcement of the Program. If a residential rental dwelling unit is not
approved in the Self-Certification Program an annual inspection fee for
an annual inspection in the amount established by resolution of the City
Council will be required. The annual inspection fee includes the cost of
the annual inspection and one compliance re-inspection, if necessary. If
the owner fails to correct any found violations by the first compliance
re-inspection, the owner shall pay a re-inspection fee for the second
and subsequent compliance re-inspections in the amount established by
Resolution of the City Council. All fees are non-refundable.

   C.   The annual residential rental dwelling unit program fee shall be
levied for the calendar year and each applicant must pay the full fee
for the calendar year upon submission of the application for that year's
residential rental dwelling unit registration. For residential rental
dwelling units which become subject to this Chapter after July 1 of the
calendar year, program fees shall be reduced by one-half.

   D.    The residential rental dwelling unit program fee required by
this Chapter is in addition to and not in lieu of any general business
license fee or tax that might be required by Chapter 5.04 of this Code.

   E.   Penalties.

      1.   Failure to Pay Annual Fee. In addition to any remedies the
City may elect to pursue pursuant to the provisions of this Code for
failure to pay the annual residential rental dwelling unit program fee
when due, the Director shall add a penalty of twenty (20) percent of the
permit fee on the first day of the month following the due date and ten
(10) percent for each month thereafter while the fee remains unpaid,
provided that the amount of the penalty shall not exceed fifty (50)
percent of the amount of the fee due.

      2.   Failure to Register. If an owner fails to register for the
residential rental dwelling unit inspection program as required by this
Chapter the fee due shall be that amount due and payable from the first
date when the person engaged in the residential rental business in the
City after the effective date of this Chapter, together with the penalty
prescribed in subsection E.1. Additionally, the Director may choose to
refuse to establish water service for residential rental dwelling units
that fail to register under this Chapter. For residential rental
dwelling units that fail to register and already have water service, the
Director may choose to terminate water service in accordance with
applicable law.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

8.40.070   Inspections.

   A.   In accordance with the requirements of this Section the City
shall be authorized to periodically conduct an inspection of residential
rental dwelling units to assure compliance with all applicable building,
housing and sanitation codes and ordinances. Owners shall provide access
to all required areas of a residential rental property for inspection
within twenty-one (21) calendar days of an inspection request from the
City's Planning and Community Development Department. This time period
may be extended upon the approval of the Director or his or her
designee. If the residential rental dwelling unit is legally occupied by
a tenant or other occupant, the owner shall notify the tenant or
occupant and request that the tenant or occupant allow the inspection.
The owner shall not be in violation of this Section if the tenant or
occupant refuses to allow the inspection. In the event that the tenant
or occupant refuse to allow access for inspection, the City may exercise
any legitimate authority to obtain access including, but not limited to,
a court order or search warrant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
designated public safety officials of the City, may enter the subject
property if exigent circumstances exist, as detemined by the public
safety officials, without a court order or search warrant.

   B.   Frequency of Inspections.

      1.   Initial Inspections and Subsequent Inspections.

         a.   It is the intent of the City that all residential rental
dwelling units subject to this Chapter as of the effective date of this
Chapter will receive an initial inspection and subsequently an annual
inspection, subject to the twenty-one (21) day notice required by
subsection A., provided that residential dwelling units who register for
the Self-Certification Program after completing the initial inspection
will not require annual inspections.

         b.   Well-maintained properties eligible to participate in the
Self-Certification Program will have reduced inspections as outlined in
Section 8.40.090 for a period of five (5) years as long as the
residential rental dwelling units' condition do not deteriorate during
that time to the extent that the property would no longer meet the
Self-Certification eligibility standards.

         c.   Any residential rental dwelling unit which becomes subject
to this Chapter after the first year of the program shall receive an
inspection within ninety (90) days of the date of registration. After
successfully completing this initial inspection, the residential rental
dwelling unit shall become eligible for Self-Certification Program.

      2.   Subsequent Inspections.

         a.   If during the inspection or any subsequent inspection
there are building, housing or sanitation code or ordinance violations,
or permit violations, on the property which prevent the City inspector
from issuing a rental housing inspection certification one or more
re-inspections of the property may be required before a rental housing
inspection certification is issued.

   C.   Code Enforcement. When during an inspection, a building, housing
or sanitation code or ordinance violation is noted, as a courtesy prior
to undertaking formal code enforcement action, the City inspector shall
document the violation, advise the owner or operator of the violation
and of the action which must be undertaken and completed in order to
remedy the violation and schedule a re-inspection to verify correction
of the violation. If upon re-inspection the violation has not been
corrected, the City inspector may report the violation for code
enforcement pursuant to the provisions of this Code. If upon receipt of
the courtesy notice from the City inspector, the owner or operator
advises that he or she will not proceed to correct the violation, the
violation shall then be immediately reported for code enforcement.

   D.   Rental Housing Inspection Certification. Upon the successful
completion of an inspection, subsequent inspection or re-inspection of
the residential rental dwelling unit establishing that the property and
its occupancy are in compliance with all applicable building, housing
and sanitation code or ordinance requirements, the City shall issue to
the owner or operator a rental housing inspection certification
verifying code/ordinance compliance and specifying a one (1) or, for
properties which qualify for the Self-Certification Program, a five (5)
year time period during which the certification will remain valid and
during which the residential rental dwelling unit shall not be subject
to a subsequent inspection. Notwithstanding the foregoing a rental
housing inspection certification shall not preclude code enforcement or
investigation on the property if during the rental housing inspection
certification period a code violation on the property is reported to the
City or otherwise observed by the City on the property.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15; Am. Ord. 543,
Section 2, 2/24/16.]

8.40.080   Local Contact Representative.

   A.   All owners of a residential rental dwelling unit shall designate
a local contact representative with full authority to act on behalf of
the owner for all purposes under this chapter, including the
communication and acceptance of service of all notices from the City,
the scheduling of inspections, and point of contact to remedy any
violations. The owner of the residential rental dwelling unit may act as
the local contact representative.

   B.   A local contact representative must establish and maintain a
residence or business address within one hundred (100) miles of the
residential rental dwelling unit. This requirement applies to all
owners, including but not limited to individuals, corporations, and
financial institutions.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

8.40.090   Self-Certification Program.

   A.   Well-maintained properties with no existing violations of
building, housing and sanitation codes or ordinances or no past
violations of building, housing and sanitation codes or ordinances
within the past three (3) year period and that successfully complete an
initial inspection by City inspectors may qualify to participate in the
Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection and Maintenance
Self-Certification Program ("Self- Certification Program").

   B.   For qualifying participants, the number of inspections will be
limited to twenty (20) percent of the total units on each property or
limited to an inspection of one-unit total in residential rental
dwelling units consisting of three (3) units, including multiple single
family dwellings at separate locations, not more often than once every
five (5) years, provided the residential rental dwelling units'
conditions do not deteriorate during that time to the extent that the
property would no longer meet the property eligibility standards. If
violations are found, more or all of the owner's units may be inspected.
The owner shall be required to pay an annual non-refundable Self-
Certification Fee and conduct an annual self-inspection of each
residential rental dwelling unit as discussed below.

   C.   Upon receipt of the request to participate in the
Self-Certification Program, the Director shall determine if the
residential rental dwelling units have not had any code violations over
the past three (3) years. If the application qualifies the owner or
operator, on behalf of the owner, shall pay the Self-Certification
Program annual non-refundable fee and the Director shall schedule the
reduced inspections as outlined in B. above for the next five (5) years.

   D.   In order to maintain eligibility in the Self-Certification
Program, the owner or operator, on behalf of the owner, shall conduct an
annual self-inspection of all the residential rental dwelling units,
including exterior conditions and site conditions, and certify under
penalty of perjury that the conditions at the property achieve the
minimum standards listed on the Self-Certification Program Checklist.
All information on said Self-Certification Checklist shall be submitted
under penalty of perjury. Any person who makes a false statement in the
Self-Certification Checklist or submits false information in connection
with a Self-Certification Checklist shall be guilty of an infraction.
The owner shall not be in violation of this section if the tenant or
occupant refuses to allow the Self-Certification inspection by the
owner. The owner shall provide the City a signed statement from the
tenant/occupant that the inspection was refused. If the tenant refuses
to sign the statement, the owner shall provide proof, under penalty of
perjury, that a request to inspect was served and it was not permitted
by the tenant.

   E.   If the Director determines that a residential rental dwelling
unit is not eligible to participate in the Self-Certification Program,
then all the residential rental dwelling units on a same property shall
be inspected and the owner shall be assessed the full annual inspection
fee established by resolution of the City Council.

   F.   Each owner or operator, on behalf of the owner, shall be
required to maintain a copy of the annual signed and dated
Self-Certification Program Checklist for each unit for the five (5) year
period and provide said list within seventy-two (72) hours upon request
of the Director or his/her designee. Failure to maintain complete signed
checklists may result in disqualification from the Self-Certification
Program for all rental properties of that owner for a period of up to
three (3) years. A copy of the annual signed and dated
Self-Certification Program Checklist shall be provided to the tenant(s)
of each residential rental dwelling unit inspected within five (5)
working days upon request of the tenant(s).

   G.   Nothing in the Self-Certification Program shall be construed or
interpreted as limiting the City's authority to investigate and compel
the abatement of any building, housing and sanitation codes or ordinance
violations.

   H.   Any property that participates in the Self-Certification Program
may be removed from the program for three (3) years, at any time if that
property fails to meet all of the interior and exterior standards
designated on the Self-Certification Program Checklist or fails to meet
building, housing and sanitation codes or ordinances as defined in this
Chapter. Each owner or operator, on behalf of the owner, will be given
reasonable time by the Director to correct the violations and remain in
the Self-Certification Program. This time period could be thirty (30) to
ninety (90) days, however for immediate life safety violations the time
lines will be less to address the urgency of the situation. Upon removal
from the program, the difference between the Self-Certification Program
fee and full annual program fee shall be due and payable.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

8.40.100   Refusal to Permit Inspection.

   A.   If an inspection is scheduled and entry is thereafter refused or
cannot be obtained, the inspector shall have recourse to every remedy
provided by law to secure lawful entry and inspect the premises,
including but not limited to securing an inspection warrant pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1822.50 through 1822.57. The
inspector shall provide notice that a warrant has been issued to both
the owner/operator and the tenant or occupant at least twenty-four (24)
hours before the warrant is executed, unless the judge finds that
immediate execution is reasonably necessary under the circumstances
shown.

   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the inspector has reasonable
cause to believe that the residential rental dwelling unit is so
hazardous, unsafe or dangerous as to require immediate inspection to
safeguard the public health or safety, the inspector shall have the
right to immediately enter and inspect the premises and may use any
reasonable means required to effect the entry and make an inspection.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

8.40.110   Retaliatory Eviction.

   It shall be unlawful for a landlord to recover possession of a
residential rental dwelling unit in retaliation against a tenant for
exercising his or her right to file a complaint with the City advising
that a building, housing or sanitation code or ordinance violation or
permit violation may exist on the property.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

8.40.120   Change of Ownership.

   When ownership of a residential rental dwelling unit changes, either
the prior owner shall notify the Director of this event prior to the
consummation of the sale or recordation of an instrument of conveyance
with the San Bernardino County Recorder's office or the new owner within
sixty (60) days after consummation of the sale or recordation of an
instrument of conveyance with the San Bernardino County Recorder's
office. If the Director is not so notified, the existing rental housing
inspection certification for the residential rental dwelling unit shall
automatically terminate and be null and void. The new owner will not
have to pay the program fees until the following calendar year provided
all fees were paid by for the residential rental dwelling unit.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

8.40.130   Regulations Nonexclusive.

   The provisions of this Chapter regulating residential rental dwelling
unit are not intended to be exclusive and compliance with this Chapter
shall not excuse noncompliance with any other applicable provision,
requirement, or regulation of this Code or any applicable state and
federal law. Nothing in this Chapter shall limit or preclude inspection
conducted by the Fire Department inspectors for compliance with Fire
Codes.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

8.40.140   Appeals.

   A.   Any appeal of a decision by a City inspector or other City
official that a residential rental dwelling unit is in violation of a
building, housing or sanitation codes or ordinances is appealable
pursuant to the procedures set forth in this subsection. The appeal must
be in writing and filed within ten (10) calendar days from the date of
the decision with the appeal fee established by resolution of the City
Council. The appeal shall specifically identify the decision which is
the subject of that appeal and the reasons why, in the appellant's
opinion, the decision is clearly erroneous. Failure of the Director to
receive a timely notice of appeal constitutes a waiver of the right to
contest any such decision. In this event, the decision is final and
binding. Appeals under this subsection shall be heard as follows:

      1.   The City shall set the date and time for the administrative
hearing not less than seven (7) calendar days and not more than ninety
(90) calendar days from the date the notice of appeal is filed and in
the event a fine is being appealed, the fine is deposited with the City,
provided, however, that no hearing to contest an administrative fine
shall be held unless the full penalty amount has been deposited in
advance. The administrative hearing will be conducted by the City
Manager or his/her designee. If the responsible party fails to attend
the scheduled hearing, the hearing will proceed without the responsible
party; and he or she will be deemed to have waived his or her right to
an administrative hearing.

      2.   Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer
shall, on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing, determine
whether the decision should be upheld, or whether the decision was
clearly erroneous and therefore should be modified or reversed. The
determination of the Hearing Officer shall be final.

      3.   A copy of the Hearing Officer's decision shall be served upon
the owner or operator of the residential rental dwelling unit by United
States mail or by personal delivery within ten (10) days.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

8.40.150   Conflicts.

   If the provisions, requirements, or regulations of this Chapter
conflict with or contravene any other provision, requirement, or
regulation of this Code, the provisions, requirements, or regulations of
this Chapter shall prevail as to all matters and questions arising out
of the subject matter of this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]

CHAPTER 8.50
[Repealed]

Chapter 8.60
PERSONAL CULTIVATION AND USE OF CANNABIS

Sections:

   8.60.010   Purpose

   8.60.020   Definitions

   8.60.030   Commercial Non-Medical Cannabis Activities Prohibited

   8.60.040   Personal Cultivation and Personal Use Generally Prohibited

   8.60.050   Personal Cultivation Restrictions

   8.60.060   Personal Cultivation Permit Applications

   8.60.070   Personal Cultivation Permits

   8.60.080   Personal Use Restrictions

   8.60.090   Enforcement

8.60.010 Purpose.

   The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to regulate the personal
cultivation and use of cannabis in the City in order to promote the
health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the residents and
businesses within the City. The City does not intend to infringe upon
any right given to individuals by the State, but rather wishes to
regulate these activities to protect the health and safety of the
community due to the significant dangers posed by unregulated
cultivation and use of cannabis in the City. The City is authorized to
regulate these activities pursuant to the AUMA and Health and Safety
Code Section 11362.2.

[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]

8.60.020 Definitions.

   For purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.

   A.   "Accessory Structure" means any fully enclosed and secure
structure on the same parcel as a primary residence, such as a
greenhouse or a shed.

   B.   "AUMA" means the Control, Regulate and Tax Adult Use of
Marijuana Act approved by California voters as Proposition 64 on
November 8, 2016,

   C.   "Cannabis" also means "marijuana" and shall be defined in
accordance with the AUMA, Health and Safety Code Section 11018, and
other applicable State laws.

   D.   "Cannabis products" also means "marijuana products" and shall be
defined in accordance with the AUMA and other applicable State laws.

   E.   "Commercial non-medical cannabis activities" includes any
non-medical cannabis activities (such as the cultivation, manufacturing,
distribution, transportation, testing, dispensing, delivery, sale, use,
storage, marketing, processing, or packaging of non-medical cannabis and
non-medical cannabis products) except for personal cultivation and
personal use only as permitted by both, the AUMA and this Code.

   F.   "Cultivation" shall be defined in accordance with the AUMA, the.
MCRSA, Business and Professions Code Section 19300.5, and other
applicable State laws.

   G.   "Cultivation Area" means a fully enclosed and secure area used
for personal cultivation within a building, greenhouse, or other
structure that has a complete roof enclosure supported by connecting
walls extending from the ground to the roof, which is secure against
unauthorized entry, is not accessible by minors, provides complete
visual screening, and is accessible only through one or more Iockable
points of entry. Cultivation areas may only exist inside of private
residences and accessory structures.

   H.   "Indoors" means within a fully enclosed and secure structure.

   I.   "MCRSA" means the California Medical Cannabis Regulation and
Safety Act.

   J.   "Medical cannabis" also means "medical marijuana" and shall be
defined in accordance with the MCRSA, Business and Professions Code
Section 19300.5, Health and Safety Code Section 11018, and other
applicable State laws.

   K.    "Minors" means anyone under the age of twenty-one (21) or
otherwise prohibited from possessing or using cannabis pursuant to the
laws of the City or the State.

   L.   "MMRSA" means the California Medical Marijuana Regulation and
Safety Act.

   M.   "Outdoors" means any location within the City that is not within
a fully enclosed and secure structure.

   N.   "Personal Cultivation" means the personal non-commercial
cultivation of cannabis by an individual twenty-one (21) years of age or
older for personal use in a proper cultivation area. Personal
cultivation shall include the non-commercial actions of planting,
growing, harvesting, drying, and processing cannabis for personal use.
All personal cultivation shall be subject to the regulations imposed by
the AUMA and this Code.

   O.   "Personal Cultivation Permit" means a City permit to cultivate
cannabis for personal use pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
Chapter and the conditions of approval for the permit.

   P.   "Personal Cultivation Permitee" means an applicant who has
applied for and has been issued a personal cultivation permit by the
City pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Chapter.

   Q.   "Personal Use" means the smoking, consumption, or ingestion of
cannabis or cannabis products by an individual twenty-one (21) years of
age or older. Personal use includes cannabis consumption by means of
vaporizers and electronic cigarettes.

   R.   "Private Residence" means a house, apartment unit, condominium,
mobile home, or other similar dwelling.

   S.   "Smoke" and "Smoking" mean to inhale, exhale, burn, or carry a
lighted or heated device or pipe, pr any other lighted or heated
cannabis or cannabis product intended for inhalation, Smoking includes
the use of an electronic device that creates an aerosol or vapor.

[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]

8.60.030 Commercial Non-Medical Cannabis Activities Prohibited.

All commercial non-medical cannabis activities within the City are
prohibited except in full compliance with all applicable requirements of
Chapter 17.80 of this Code.

[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16; Ord. No. 650, Section 7, 5/8/24.]

8.60.040 Personal Cultivation and Personal Use Generally Prohibited.

   All personal cultivation and personal use of cannabis within the City
is prohibited except as expressly permitted by this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]

8.60.050 Personal Cultivation Restrictions.

   Personal cultivation of cannabis is conditionally permitted in the
City only as expressly specified in this Chapter.

   A.   Personal cultivation requires a personal cultivation permit.

   B.   Personal cultivation may only occur indoors within private
residences and accessory structures. No personal cultivation of cannabis
shall occur outdoors. There shall be no visible exterior evidence of any
personal cultivation activity from any publicly accessible area or
right-of-way.

   C.   Personal cultivation is only allowed within a fully enclosed and
secure area that is inaccessible to minors, regardless of whether the
location is frequented of occupied by minors. Entrance to the
cultivation area, and all cannabis storage areas, shall be locked at all
times, and under the control of the personal cultivation permitee.

   D.   All cannabis produced by personal cultivation, or available for
personal use, shall be kept in a secured manner that is inaccessible to
minors.

   E.   All cannabis products and paraphernalia shall be kept in a
secured manner that is inaccessible to minors.

   F.    Personal cultivation shall only include the non-commercial
actions of planting, growing, harvesting, and dry-processing cannabis.

   G.   Personal cultivation shall not include mamifacturing,
extractions, use of chemicals, or volatile processing.

   H.   All personal cultivation must occur in a single contiguous
cultivation area per parcel of real property.

   I.   Any parcel of real property upon which personal cultivation
occurs shall not contain more than six (6) cannabis plants at any time,
regardless of the maturity of the plants and the number of occupants,
private residences, or accessory structures present on the parcel.

   J.   Cannabis plants inside of private residences shall not exceed
five (5) feet in height when measured from the floor to the top of the
plant.

   K.   Cannabis plants inside of accessory structures shall not exceed
seven (7) feet in height when measured from the floor to the top of the
plant.

   L.   Cannabis plants inside of private residences shall not occupy
more than twelve (12) square feet of contiguous floor space.

   M.   Cannabis plants inside of accessory structures shall not occupy
more than twenty-four (24) square feet of contiguous floor space.

   N.   All cultivation areas shall contain a readily accessible and
operational fire extinguisher in the immediate area where the personal
cultivation activities occur.

   O.   Personal cultivation shall not occur in violation of any
building code standards pursuant to State law, the Health and Safety
Code, the California Building Standards Code, the California Code of
Regulations, the Adelanto Municipal Code, or any other applicable codes.

   P.   Generators shall not be used to support any personal cultivation
activities.

   Q.   Personal cultivation shall not adversely affect the health or
safety of the community or nearby residents by creating dust, glare,
heat, noise, smoke, traffic, vibration, or other nuisances, and shall
not be hazardous due to use or storage of materials, processes,
products, or wastes.

   R.   Cannabis odor shall not be detectable outside of the cultivation
area.

   S.   Personal cultivation shall not involve the increase of natural
environmental humidity to support plant growth unless done in sealed
container so as to prevent mold growth.

   T.   Personal cultivation shall not occur on City property or any
other public lands. Personal cultivation may only be conducted with the
express written notarized permission of the owner of the land and the
structure being used for personal cultivation.

   U.   Cannabis produced by personal cultivation may only be used or
given away to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or older, who are
otherwise permitted by law to possess and use cannabis.

   V.    Cannabis produced by personal cultivation may only be given
away to an individual in an amount of up to 28.5 grams of
non-concentrated cannabis, or eight (8) grams of concentrated cannabis,
once per month.

   W.   Cannabis produced by personal cultivation may not be sold or
given away for any compensation whatsoever.

   X.   All cannabis related waste shall be destroyed or disposed of in
a secure manner in compliance with all State and local laws so as to
prevent access by minors.

   Y.   The City Manager, the City Manager's designee, the City's Code
Enforcement Manager, the City's Building Official, the Fire Department,
and law enforcement have the legal authority and right to enter and
inspect the cultivation area upon reasonable demand to protect the
health and safety of any occupants, neighbors, and the public.
Authorized purposes for inspection of the cultivation area under this
Chapter include, but are not limited to, observing and enforcing
compliance with this Chapter, the Health and Safety Code, the California
Building Standards Code, and all other applicable laws of the City and
the State. Refusing consent to an inspection under this Chapter shall
constitute grounds for obtaining an inspection warrant and for
revocation of any related personal cultivation permit.

[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16; Ord. No. 561, Section 2, 4/12/17.]

8.60.060 Personal Cultivation Permit Applications.

   All applicants wishing to obtain a personal cultivation permit from
the City must file an application to the City upon a form provided by
the City. An application for a personal cultivation permit shall include
at least the following information:

   A.   The address of the location for which the personal cultivation
permit is sought. Only one (1) personal cultivation permit will be
issued per location.

   B.   The names, ages, and addresses of all owners, lessors, and
occupants of the parcel of real property for the proposed personal
cultivation site.

   C.   Proof that the applicant is a lawful occupant of the parcel of
real property for the proposed personal cultivation site.

   D.   The application must be accompanied by a certified grant deed to
the parcel for the proposed personal cultivation site showing the name
of the legal owner.

   E.   If the applicant is not the legal owner of the parcel for the
proposed personal cultivation site, the application must also be
accompanied by a notarized acknowledgment from the legal owner
authorizing personal cultivation to occur on the parcel.

   F.   Evidence that the cultivation area will be located in a legal
structure that is compliant with all applicable State and local laws.

   G.   Authorization for the City Manager, the City Manager's designee,
the City's Code Enforcement Manager, the City's Building Official, the
Fire Department, and law enforcement to enter and inspect the
cultivation area at any time upon twenty-four (24) hours advance notice
for the purpose of making reasonable inspections to observe and enforce
compliance with this Chapter, the Health and Safety Code, the California
Building Standards Code, and all other applicable laws of the City and
the State.

   H.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager's designee to administer this Chapter.

   I.   Authorization for the City Manager's designee to seek
verification of the information contained in the application.

   J.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in
the application is true and correct.

[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]

8.60.070 Personal Cultivation Permits.

   The following conditions apply to each personal cultivation permit:

   A.   Except for individuals who qualify for an indigent waiver, each
personal cultivation permitee must pay a personal cultivation permit fee
in an amount to be established by resolution of the City Council to
offset the cost to the City of administering this Chapter as a
prerequisite to obtaining the personal cultivation permit.

   B.   The City Manager's designee shall establish qualifications for
an indigent waiver of the personal cultivation permit fee ("indigent
waiver"). Qualifying individuals shall obtain the indigent waiver from
the City Clerk. An indigent waiver shall entitle a qualifying individual
for either a reduction or a complete waiver of the personal cultivation
permit fee according to the criteria established by the City Manager's
designee.

   C.   A personal cultivation permit will not be awarded or renewed if:

      1.   The applicant made one (1) or more false or misleading
statements or omissions in the application or during the application
process.

      2.   The proposed personal cultivation activity would violate
State or local law.

      3.   The applicant does not have legal authority to engage in
personal cultivation at the proposed personal cultivation site.

      4.   The applicant has not satisfied each and every requirement of
this Chapter.

      5.   The applicant has had a previous personal cultivation permit
revoked.

      6.   The applicant has not maintained compliance with each and
every requirement of this Chapter prior to renewal.

   D.   Only one (1) personal cultivation permit may be possessed or
used by the same person.

   E.   Personal cultivation permits may only be issued for private
residences and accessory structures, and only one (1) personal
cultivation permit may be issued per parcel.

   F.   Personal cultivation permits are subject to any additional
conditions that may be applied by the City at the time of issuance or
renewal as necessary to properly regulate the activity and protect the
public.

   G.   Within ninety (90) days of obtaining a personal cultivation
permit, the cultivation area must be inspected and approved by the
Building Official, the Fire Department, Code Enforcement, and law
enforcement.

   H.   Personal cultivation permitees shall keep the City and law
enforcement updated with the names, ages, and addresses of all
occupants, lessors, and owners of the personal cultivation site.

   I.   Personal cultivation permits shall expire and become null and
void twelve (12) months after issuance unless properly renewed, Prior to
renewal, all applicable personal cultivation permit fees must be paid,
and the cultivation area must be inspected and approved by the Building
Official, the Fire Department, Code Enforcement, and law enforcement.

   J.   Personal cultivation permits issued pursuant to this Chapter are
not transferable to any third parties under, any circumstances.

[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]

8.60.080 Personal Use Restrictions.

   Personal use of cannabis is conditionally permitted in the City only
as expressly specified in this Chapter.

   A.   Only individuals who are twenty-one (21) years of age or older
shall be permitted to possess, use, smoke, inhale, ingest, or consume
cannabis or cannabis products. No individual under twenty-one (21) years
of age shall possess, use, smoke, inhale, ingest, or otherwise consume
cannabis or cannabis products.

   B.   Only individuals who are twenty-one (21) years of age or older
shall be permitted to possess or use cannabis accessories and
paraphernalia.

   C.   All cannabis, cannabis products, cannabis paraphernalia, and
cannabis accessories must be stored in a secure location that is
inaccessible to minors except during lawful personal use.

   D.   No person shall attempt to sell, offer to sell, sell, furnish,
administer, distribute, dispense, or give away any cannabis or cannabis
products for any compensation whatsoever unless done so pursuant to a
valid commercial seller's permit issued by the City.

   E.   No person shall attempt to sell, offer to sell, sell, furnish,
administer, distribute, dispense, or give away any cannabis or cannabis
products to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age under any
circumstances.

   F.   Personal use of cannabis shall only be permitted inside of
private residences or in dedicated well-ventilated cannabis smoking
lounges as approved by the City. Cannabis and cannabis products shall
not be smoked, inhaled, ingested, consumed, or otherwise used in the
presence of minors, outdoors, in any public place, at any place of
business except dedicated well-ventilated cannabis smoking lounges as
approved by the City, while trespassing on private lands, or in any
location where smoking tobacco is prohibited.

   G.   Personal use of cannabis shall not adversely affect the health
or safety of the community or nearby residents by creating dust, glare,
heat, noise, smoke, traffic, vibration, or other nuisances, and shall
not be hazardous due to use or storage of materials, processes,
products, or wastes.

   H.   No cannabis odor shall be detectable outside of permissible
personal use areas.

   I.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, boat, vessel, aircraft,
or other vehicle used for transportation while using or under the
influence of cannabis.

   J.   No person shall possess an open container or open package of
cannabis or cannabis products while driving, operating, or riding in a
motor vehicle, boat, vessel, aircraft, or other vehicle used for
transportation.

   K.   No person shall possess more than 28.5 grams of non-concentrated
cannabis, or eight (8) grams of concentrated cannabis, on their person
at any time unless done so pursuant to a valid permit issued by the
City.

   L.   All cannabis, cannabis products, cannabis byproducts, and
related waste shall be disposed of in a secure manner as to prevent
access to minors in compliance with all State and local laws.

[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]

8.60.090 Enforcement.

   A.   The City does not assume any liability, and expressly does not
waive sovereign immunity, with respect to any personal cultivation or
personal use activities.

   B.   Any cultivation or use of cannabis within the City in violation
of this Chapter is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.

   C.   Any party who engages in a violation of this Chapter, or who
owns, possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property
in the City upon which a violation of the Chapter is maintained, shall
be subject to the penalties and remedies provided by this Chapter.

   D.   Any violation of this Chapter shall constitute a separate
offense for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.

   E.   Any person in violation of any provision of this Chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$1,000 and up to six (6) months imprisonment per offense per day.

   F.   Any person in violation of any provision of this Chapter shall
be punishable by an administrative fine of up to $1,000 per offense per
day.

   G.   Each parent or legal guardian of any minor acting in violation
of this Chapter shall be jointly and severally liable for said
violation.

   H.   The City may levy a special assessment against any parcel of
real property in violation of this Chapter to recover administrative
fines and all related City costs including, but not limited to, staff
costs, inspections costs, enforcement costs, administrative overhead,
administrative hearing costs, attorneys' fees, prosecution costs, court
costs, legal fees, and any other related costs. The special assessment
may also be recorded against the nuisance property. If a tenant, as
opposed to a property owner or landlord, is acting in violation of this
Chapter, the owner or landlord shall be given notice of the violation
and shall have a period of seven (7) days to initiate eviction
proceedings against the tenant. If the owner or landlord fails to
initiate eviction proceedings within seven (7) days, or fails to
diligently prosecute the tenant's eviction, the owner or landlord shall
become collaterally liable for any administrative fines, which may then
be collected as a special assessment against the parcel of real
property.

   I.   At the discretion of the City Manager's designee, any person
issued an administrative fine for any violation of this Chapter may
elect to participate in a voluntary community service diversion program
("community service program") as an alternative to paying any
administrative fines incurred. The community service program shall be
administered by the City Manager's designee. Any individual wishing to.
participate in the community service program must first obtain the
approval of the City Manager's designee before commencing participation.
A participant in the community service program shall be granted a credit
of $25 per hour worked (as verified by the City Manager's designee)
toward the balance of their administrative fines owed to the City.

      1.   At the discretion of the City Manager's designee, a parent or
legal guardian that has been issued an administrative fine based upon
joint and several liability for any violation of this Chapter caused by
their minor child may elect to require the minor to participate in the
community service program. In such circumstance, the parent or legal
guardian shall participate in the community service program along with
the minor. Each parent or legal guardian shall be responsible for the
safety of the minor while participating in the community service
program. The parent or legal guardian and the minor shall each be
granted a credit of $25 per hour worked (as verified by the City
Manager's designee) toward the balance of the administrative fines owed
to the City.

   J.   Any violation of this Chapter, or any other City or State
cannabis law, by a personal cultivation permitee is grounds for revoking
the personal cultivation permitee's personal cultivation permit.

      1.   Any decision regarding the revocation of a personal
cultivation permit may be appealed to an independent neutral third party
administrative hearing officer appointed by the City Manager's designee
("hearing officer"). Said appeal shall be made by a written notice of
appeal from the person appealing within ten (10) days from the date of
the personal cultivation permit revocation order. The appeal shall be
accompanied by a written verified declaration setting forth the basis
for the claim that the personal cultivation permit was improperly
revoked.

      2.   Upon receipt of the appeal, the City shall schedule an
administrative hearing to occur within ninety (90) days. The City shall
provide ten (10) days advance notice of the date, time, and location of
the administrative hearing to the appellant. The hearing officer's
decision shall be final and binding upon the City and the appellant.

      3.   The costs of the administrative hearing shall be borne by the
non-prevailing party.

      4.   Failure to properly appeal the personal cultivation permit
revocation as required herein, or to appear at the properly noticed
administrative hearing, shall constitute a waiver of the right to
contest the permit revocation, a failure to exhaust the available
administrative remedies, and a bar to any further appeals of the permit
revocation.

   K.   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition to
any other penalties and remedies available to the City.

[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]

Chapter 8.70
MANDATORY ORGANIC WASTE DISPOSAL REDUCTION

Sections:

   8.70.010   Definitions

   8.70.020   Requirements for Single Family Generators

   8.70.030   Requirements for Commercial Business Generators

   8.70.040   Waivers for Commercial Generators

   8.70.050   Requirements for Commercial Edible Food Generators

   8.70.060   Requirements for Food Recovery Organizations and Services

   8.70.070   Requirements for Haulers and Facility Operators

   8.70.080   Self-Hauler Requirements for Organic Waste

   8.70.090   Compliance with CALGreen Recycling Requirements

   8.70.100   Model Water Landscaping Ordinance Requirements

   8.70.110   Procurement Requirements for City Departments, Direct
Service Providers, and Vendors

   8.70.120   Inspections and Investigations

   8.70.130   Enforcement

8.70.010 Definitions.

For purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.

   A.   “CalRecycle” means California's Department of Resources
Recycling and Recovery, which is the department designated with
responsibility for developing, implementing, and enforcing SB 1383
Regulations on City of Adelanto (and others).

   B.   “California Code of Regulations” or “CCR” means the State of
California Code of Regulations. CCR references in this article are
preceded with a number that refers to the relevant Title of the CCR
(e.g., “14 CCR” refers to Title 14 of CCR).

   C.   “City Enforcement Official” means the city manager, or other
executive in charge or their authorized designee(s) who is/are partially
or wholly responsible for enforcing this article.

   D.   “Commercial Business” or “Commercial Subscriber” means a firm,
partnership, proprietorship, joint-stock company, corporation, or
association, whether for-profit or nonprofit, strip mall, industrial
facility, or a multifamily residential dwelling with five (5) or more
units.

   E.   “Community Composting” means any approved city activity that
composts green material, agricultural material, food material, and
vegetative food material, alone or in combination, and the total amount
of feedstock and compost on-site at any one time does not exceed one
hundred (100) cubic yards and seven hundred fifty (750) square feet, (14
CCR Section 17855(a)(4); or, 18982(a)(8)).

   F.   “Commercial Edible Food Generator” includes a tier one or a tier
two commercial edible food generator as defined in subsection (TT) and
(UU) of this Section or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
18982(a)(73) and (a)(74). For the purposes of this definition, food
recovery organizations and food recovery services are not commercial
edible food generators pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(7).

   G.   “Compliance Review” means a review of records by a City of
Adelanto to determine compliance with this article.

   H.   “Compost” means the product resulting from the controlled
biological decomposition of organic solid wastes that are source
separated from the municipal solid waste stream, or which are separated
at a centralized facility. (14 CCR Section 17896.2(a)(4)).

   I.   “Compostable Plastics” or “Compostable Plastic” means plastic
materials that meet the ASTM D6400 standard for compostability, or as
otherwise described in 14 CCR Section 18984.1(a)(1)(A) or
18984.2(a)(1)(C).

   J.   “Container Contamination” or “Contaminated Container” means a
container, regardless of color, that contains prohibited container
contaminants (14 CCR Section 18982(a)(55)).

   K.   “C&D” means construction and demolition debris.

   L.   “Designee” means a government entity, a hauler, a private
entity, or a combination of those entities.

   M.   “Edible Food” means food intended for human consumption (14 CCR
Section 18982(a)(18)). Nothing in this chapter or in 14 CCR, Division 7,
Chapter 12 requires or authorizes the recovery of edible food that does
not meet the food safety requirements of the California Retail Food
Code.

   N.   “Enforcement Action" means an action of the City to address
non-compliance with this chapter including, but not limited to, issuing
administrative citations, fines, penalties, or using other remedies.

   O.   “Excluded Waste” means hazardous substance, hazardous waste,
infectious waste, designated waste, volatile, corrosive, medical waste,
infectious, regulated radioactive waste, and toxic substances or
material that upon collection, transfer, processing, or disposal, be a
violation of local, State, or Federal law, regulation, or ordinance.

   P.   “Food Distributor” means a company that distributes food to
entities including, but not limited to, supermarkets and grocery stores.

   Q.   “Food Facility” means an operation that stores, prepares,
packages, serves, vends, or otherwise provides food for human
consumption at the retail level. (Section 113789 of the Health and
Safety Code).

   R.   “Food Recovery” means actions to collect and distribute food for
human consumption that otherwise would be disposed.

   S.   “Food Recovery Organization” means an entity that engages in the
collection or receipt of edible food and distributes that edible food to
the public either directly or through other entities for the purposes of
reducing hunger and supplying nutritional needs. (CA Health & Safety
Code § 113783, 113841, 113842).

   T.   “Food Recovery Service” means a person or entity that collects
and transports edible food from a generator to a food recovery
organization.

   U.   “Food Service Provider” means an entity primarily engaged in
providing food services to institutional, governmental, commercial, or
industrial locations.

   V.   “Food-Soiled Paper” is paper material that has come in contact
with food or liquid, such as, but not limited to, paper plates and
napkins.

   W.   “Food Waste” means all food and food scraps such as, but not
limited to, fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, seafood, shellfish,
bones, rice, beans, pasta, bread, cheese, and eggshells. Food waste
excludes fats, oils, liquids, and grease when such materials are source
separated.

   X.   “Grocery Store” means a store primarily engaged in the retail
sale of canned food; dry goods; fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh
meats, fish, and poultry; and any area that is not separately owned
within the store where the food is prepared and served, including a
bakery, deli, and meat and seafood departments.

   Y.   “Inspection” means a site visit where a City or City designee
reviews records, containers, and an entity’s handling of organic waste
or edible food to determine if the entity is in compliance.

   Z.   “Large Event” means an event, including, but not limited to, a
sporting event or a flea market, that charges an admission price, or is
operated by a local agency, and serves an average of more than two
thousand (2,000) individuals per day of operation of the event, at a
location that includes, but is not limited to, a public, nonprofit, or
privately owned park, parking lot, golf course, street system, or other
open space when being used for an event.

   AA.   “Large Venue” means a permanent venue facility that annually
seats or serves an average of more than two thousand (2,000) individuals
within the grounds of the facility per day of operation of the venue
facility including, but is not limited to, a public, nonprofit, or
privately owned or operated stadium, amphitheater, arena, hall,
amusement park, conference or civic center, zoo, aquarium, airport,
racetrack, horse track, performing arts center, fairground, museum,
theater, or other public attraction facility.

   BB.   “Local Education Agency” means a school district, charter
school, or county office of education that is not subject to the control
of city regulations related to solid waste.

   CC.   “Multi-Family Residential Dwelling” or “Multi-Family” means of,
from, or pertaining to residential premises with five (5) or more
dwelling units. Multi-Family premises do not include hotels, motels, or
other transient occupancy facilities, which are considered commercial
businesses.

   DD.   “MWELO” refers to the Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance
(MWELO), 23 CCR, Division 2, Chapter 2.7.

   EE.   “Non-Local Entity” means the following entities that are not
subject to the City’s enforcement authority including but not limited to
special district(s), federal facilities, prison(s), facilities operated
by the state park system, public universities (including community
colleges), county fairgrounds, or other state agencies.

   FF.   “Non-Organic Recyclables” means non-putrescible and
non-hazardous recyclable wastes including but not limited to bottles,
cans, metals, plastics and glass.

   GG.   “Notice of Violation (NOV)” means a notice that a violation has
occurred that includes a compliance date to avoid an action to seek
penalties.

   HH.   “Organic Waste” means solid wastes containing material
originated from living organisms and their metabolic waste products,
including but not limited to food, green material, landscape and pruning
waste, organic textiles and carpets, lumber, wood, paper products,
printing and writing paper, manure, biosolids, digestate, and sludges.
(14 CCR Section 18982).

   II.   “Organic Waste Generator” means a person or entity that is
responsible for the initial creation of organic waste.

   JJ.   “Prohibited Container Contaminants” means discarded materials
placed in a container that are not identified as being permitted or are
considered to be excluded waste.

   KK.   “Recovered Organic Waste Products” means products made from
California, landfill-diverted recovered organic waste processed in a
permitted or otherwise authorized facility.

   LL.   “Recycled-Content Paper” means paper products and printing and
writing paper that consists of at least thirty (30) percent, by fiber
weight, postconsumer fiber (14 CCR Section 18982(a)(61)).

   MM.   “Renewable Gas” means gas derived from organic waste that has
been diverted from a California landfill and processed at an in-vessel
digestion facility that is permitted.

   NN.   “SB 619" means Senate Bill 619 of 2021 amending Section 42652.5
of the Public Resources Code.

   OO.   “Self-Hauler” means a commercial generator approved by the
City, who hauls organic waste to a facility or location using the
generator’s own employees and equipment, in an effort to avoid
subscribing to the franchise hauler’s service.

   PP.   “Single-Family” means of, from, or pertaining to any
residential premises with fewer than five (5) units.

   QQ.   “Solid Waste” has the same meaning as defined in State Public
Resources Code Section 40191, which defines Solid Waste as all
putrescible and nonputrescible solid, semisolid, and liquid wastes,
including garbage, trash, refuse, paper, rubbish, ashes, industrial
wastes, demolition and construction wastes, abandoned vehicles and parts
thereof, discarded home and industrial appliances, dewatered, treated,
or chemically fixed sewage sludge which is not hazardous waste, manure,
vegetable or animal solid and semi-solid wastes, and other discarded
solid and semisolid wastes, with the exception that solid waste does not
include any of the following wastes:

      1.   Hazardous waste, as defined in the State Public Resources
Code Section 40141.

      2.   Radioactive waste regulated pursuant to the State Radiation
Control Law (Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 114960)) of Part 9 of
Division 104 of the State Health and Safety Code).

      3.   Medical waste regulated pursuant to the State Medical Waste
Management Act (Part 14 (commencing with Section 117600)) of Division
104 of the State Health and Safety Code). Untreated medical waste shall
not be disposed of in a solid waste landfill, as defined in State Public
Resources Code Section 40195.1. Medical waste that has been treated and
deemed to be solid waste shall be regulated pursuant to Division 30 of
the State Public Resources Code.

   RR.   “Source Separated” means materials, including commingled
recyclable materials, that have been separated or kept separate from the
solid waste stream, at the point of generation by the resident, tenant,
business owner, property owner, business owner’s employee, or property
owner’s employee into different containers for the purpose of
collection.

   SS.   “Supermarket” means a full-line, self-service retail store with
gross annual sales of two million dollars ($2,000,000), or more, and
which sells a line of dry grocery, canned goods, or nonfood items and
some perishable items.

   TT.   “Tier One Commercial Edible Food Generator” means supermarket,
grocery store with a total facility size equal to or greater than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet, food service provider, food distributor,
or wholesale food vendor.

   UU.   “Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator” means a restaurant
with two hundred fifty (250) or more seats, or a total facility size
equal to or greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet, hotel with
an on-site food facility and two hundred (200) or more rooms, health
facility with an on-site food facility and one hundred (100) or more
beds, large venue, large event, a State agency with a cafeteria with two
hundred fifty (250) or more seats or total cafeteria facility size equal
to or greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet, or local education
agency facility with an on-site food facility.

   VV.   “Wholesale Food Vendor” means a business or establishment
engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of food, where food
(including fruits and vegetables) is received, shipped, stored, prepared
for distribution to a retailer, warehouse, distributor, or other
destination.

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

8.70.020 Requirements for Single Family Generators.

Single-Family organic waste generators shall comply with the following
requirements:

   A.   Shall subscribe to the franchised hauler’s organic waste
collection services for all organic waste generated. The City or City’s
designee shall have the right to review the number and size of a
generator’s containers to evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for
each type of collection service for proper separation and containment of
materials. Single-Family generators shall adjust its service level for
its collection services as requested by the City. Generators may
additionally manage their organic waste by using a community or backyard
composting site.

   B.   Shall place designated materials in designated containers. A
person or entity is not required to replace functional containers,
including containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022, that do not
comply with the color requirements of the regulations, prior to the end
of the useful life of those containers, or prior to January 1, 2036,
whichever comes first. Commencing January 1, 2022, labels will be placed
on each new container or lid provided to generators consistent with the
applicable container collection requirements and limitations of this
article specifying what materials are allowed to be placed in each
container.

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

8.70.030 Requirements for Commercial Business Generators.

Commercial businesses, including multi-family residential dwellings,
shall:

   A.   Subscribe to the franchise hauler’s collection services and
comply with requirements of those services. The City or City’s designee
shall have the right to review the number and size of a generator’s
containers and frequency of collection to evaluate adequacy of capacity
provided for each type of collection service for proper separation of
materials and containment of materials. Commercial businesses shall
adjust their service level for their collection services as requested by
the City.

   B.   Generator shall place designated materials in the permitted
containers. A person or entity is not required to replace functional
containers, including containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022,
that do not comply with the color requirements of the regulations, prior
to the end of the useful life of those containers, or prior to January
1, 2036, whichever comes first. Commencing January 1, 2022, labels will
be placed on each new container or lid provided to generators consistent
with the applicable container collection requirements and limitations of
this article specifying what materials are allowed to be placed in each
container.

   C.   Supply and allow access to adequate number, size and location of
collection containers for employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers.

   D.   Excluding multi-family residential dwellings, provide containers
for the collection of source separated organic waste and recyclable
materials in all indoor and outdoor areas where disposal containers are
provided for customers. Such containers do not need to be provided in
restrooms. If a commercial business does not generate any of the
materials that would be collected in one type of container, then the
business does not have to provide that particular container in all areas
where disposal containers are provided for customers. The containers
provided by the business shall have either:

      1.   A body or lid that conforms with the container colors
provided through the collection service provided by the City’s
franchised hauler, with either lids conforming to the color requirements
or bodies conforming to the color requirements or both lids and bodies
conforming to color requirements. A commercial business is not required
to replace functional containers, including containers purchased prior
to January 1, 2022, that do not comply with the requirements of the
subsection prior to the end of the useful life of those containers, or
prior to January 1, 2036, whichever comes first.

      2.   Container labels that include language or graphic images, or
both, indicating the primary material accepted and the primary materials
prohibited in that container, or containers with imprinted text or
graphic images that indicate the primary materials accepted and primary
materials prohibited in the container. Container labeling requirements
are required on new containers placed into service commencing January 1,
2022.

   E.   Multi-family residential dwellings are not required to comply
with container placement or labeling requirements.

   F.   To the extent practical through education, training, inspection,
and/or other measures, excluding multi-family residential dwellings,
prohibit employees from placing materials in a container not designated
for those materials.

   G.   Excluding multi-family residential dwellings, periodically
inspect containers for contamination and inform employees if containers
are contaminated and of the requirements to keep contaminants out of
said containers.

   H.   Annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants,
and customers about organic waste recovery requirements and about proper
sorting of source separated materials.

   I.   Provide education information before or within fourteen (14)
days of occupation of the premises to new tenants that describes
requirements to source separated materials and the location of
containers and the rules governing their use at each property.

   J.   Provide or arrange access for City or City’s designee to their
properties during all inspections conducted in accordance with this
chapter to confirm compliance.

   K.   Nothing in this Section prohibits a generator from preventing or
reducing waste generation, managing organic waste on site, or using a
community composting site (14 CCR Section 18984.9(c)).

   L.   Commercial businesses that are tier one or tier two commercial
edible food generators shall comply with food recovery requirements.

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

8.70.040 Waivers for Commercial Generators.

The City may grant waivers to generators for physical space limitations
and de minimis (low) volumes.

   A.   De minimis waivers (low volume). The City may waive a commercial
business’ obligation (including multi-family residential dwellings) to
comply with some or all of the organic waste requirements of this
chapter if its own staff or City designee certifies that the business
generates below a certain amount of organic waste material. Commercial
businesses requesting a de minimis waiver shall:

      1.   Submit an application to the City or City’s designee
specifying the services that they are requesting a waiver from and
provide documentation as noted below.

      2.   Provide documentation that either:

         a.   The commercial business’ total solid waste collection
service is two (2) cubic yards or more per week and organic waste
comprises less than twenty (20) gallons per week per applicable
container of the business’ total waste; or,

         b.   The commercial business’ total solid waste collection
service is less than two (2) cubic yards per week and organic waste
comprises less than ten (10) gallons per week per applicable container
of the business’ total waste.

         c.   Notify City if circumstances change such that commercial
business’ organic waste exceeds threshold required for waiver, in which
case waiver will be rescinded.

         d.   De minimis waivers are valid for a period of five (5)
years and subject to reverification by the City or City designee at any
time.

   B.   Physical space waivers. The City may waive a commercial
business’ or property owner’s obligations (including multi-family
residential dwellings) to comply with some or all of the organic waste
collection service requirements if its own staff, or City designee,
certifies that the premises lack adequate space for the collection
containers required for compliance with the organic waste collection
requirements.

A commercial business or property owner may request a physical space
waiver through the following process:

      1.   Submit an application form to the City or City designee
specifying the type(s) of collection services for which they are
requesting a compliance waiver.

      2.   Provide documentation that the premises lack adequate space
for containers and include documentation from either its franchised
hauler, licensed architect, or licensed engineer.

      3.   Physical space waivers are valid for a period of five (5)
years and subject to reverification by the City or City designee at any
time.

   C.   The City shall make the final determination for each waiver
application. Approved waivers may be reverified and/or rescinded by the
City at any time.

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

8.70.050 Requirements for Commercial Edible Food Generators.

   A.   Tier one commercial edible food generators must comply with
requirements commencing January 1, 2022, and tier two commercial edible
food generators must comply commencing January 1, 2024.

   B.   Large venue or large event operators not providing food
services, but allowing for food to be provided by others, shall require
food facilities operating at the large venue or large event to comply
with the requirements of this Section, commencing January 1, 2024.

   C.   Commercial edible food generators shall comply with the
following requirements:

      1.   Arrange to recover the maximum amount of edible food that
would otherwise be disposed.

      2.   Contract with, or enter into a written agreement with, food
recovery organizations or food recovery services for the collection or
acceptance of the edible food that the commercial edible food generator
provides to the food recovery organization for food recovery.

      3.   Shall not intentionally spoil edible food that is capable of
being recovered by a food recovery organization or a food recovery
service.

      4.   Allow the City’s designated enforcement entity or designee to
access the premises and review records.

      5.   Keep records that include the following information:

         a.   A list of each food recovery service or organization that
collects or receives its edible food pursuant to a contract or written
agreement.

         b.   A copy of all contracts or written agreements.

         c.   A record of the following information for each of those
food recovery services or food recovery organizations:

            i.   The name, address and contact information of the food
recovery service or food recovery organization.

            ii.   The types of food that will be collected or
transported to the food recovery service or food recovery organization.

            iii.   The established frequency that food will be collected
or self-hauled.

            iv.   The quantity of food, measured in pounds recovered per
month, collected or transported to a food recovery service or food
recovery organization for food recovery.

            v.   Provide copies of contracts, agreements, and required
records to the City or City designee upon request.

   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or conflict
with the protections provided by the California Good Samaritan Food
Donation Act of 2017, the Federal Good Samaritan Act, or share table and
school food donation guidance pursuant to Senate Bill 557 of 2017
(approved by the Governor of the State of California on September 25,
2017, which added Article 13 [commencing with Section 49580] to Chapter
9 of Part 27 of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Education Code, and to
amend Section 114079 of the Health and Safety Code, relating to food
safety, as amended, supplemented, superseded and replaced from time to
time).

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

8.70.060 Requirements for Food Recovery Organizations and Services.

   A.   Food recovery services collecting or receiving edible food
directly from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or
written agreement established shall maintain the following records:

      1.   The name, address, and contact information for each
commercial edible food generator from which the service collects edible
food.

      2.   The quantity in pounds of edible food collected from each
commercial edible food generator per month.

      3.   The quantity in pounds of edible food transported to each
food recovery organization per month.

      4.   The name, address, and contact information for each food
recovery organization that the food recovery service transports edible
food to for food recovery.

   B.   Food recovery organizations collecting or receiving edible food
directly from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or
written agreement, shall maintain the following records:

      1.   The name, address, and contact information for each
commercial edible food generator from which the organization receives
edible food.

      2.   The quantity in pounds of edible food received from each
commercial edible food generator per month.

      3.   The name, address, and contact information for each food
recovery service that the organization receives edible food from for
food recovery.

   C.   Food recovery organizations and food recovery services shall
inform generators about California and Federal Good Samaritan Food
Donation Act protection in their contract or agreement.

   D.   Food recovery organizations and food recovery services that have
their primary address physically located in the City and contract with
or have written agreements with one (1) or more commercial edible food
generators shall report to the City or City designee the total pounds of
edible food recovered in the previous calendar quarter from the tier one
and tier two commercial edible food generators they have established a
contract or written agreement with beginning April 1, 2023 for the
previous quarter. Reports are required to be submitted to the City or
City designee no later than thirty (30) days from the end of the quarter
being reported.

   E.   Food recovery services and food recovery organizations operating
in the City shall provide information and consultation to the City, upon
request, regarding existing, or proposed new or expanded, food recovery
capacity that could be accessed by the City and its commercial edible
food generators. A food recovery service or food recovery organization
contacted by the City shall respond to such request for information
within sixty (60) days, unless a shorter timeframe is otherwise
specified by the City.

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

8.70.070 Requirements for Haulers and Facility Operators.

   A.   Requirements for Haulers. Haulers shall meet the following
requirements and standards as a condition of approval of a permit or
other authorization with the City to collect organic waste:

      1.   Through written notice to the City initially on or before
July 1, 2022 and when changes occur, identify the facilities to which
they will transport organic waste including facilities for source
separated recyclable materials, and source separated green container
organic waste.

      2.   Notwithstanding any the foregoing, nothing in this Chapter
shall restrict or otherwise prohibit haulers from meeting compliance
requirements by any alternative methods or procedures, provided it
complies with SB 1383, the SB 1383 Regulations, and/or any other
applicable law, as may be amended from time to time, or being relieved
of, or delaying compliance with such requirement pursuant to SB 619.

   B.   Requirements for facility operators and community composting
operations.

      1.   Owners of facilities, operations, and activities that recover
organic waste, including, but not limited to, compost facilities,
in-vessel digestion facilities, and publicly-owned treatment works
shall, upon City request, provide information regarding available and
potential new or expanded capacity at their facilities, operations, and
activities, including information about throughput and permitted
capacity necessary for planning purposes. Entities contacted by the City
shall respond within sixty (60) days.

      2.   Community composting operators, upon City request, shall
provide information to the City or City designee to support organic
waste capacity planning, including, but not limited to, an estimate of
the amount of organic waste anticipated to be handled at the community
composting operation. Entities contacted by the City or City designee
shall respond within sixty (60) days.

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

8.70.080 Self-Hauler Requirements for Organic Waste.

   A.   Approved self-haulers shall source separate all organic waste
generated on-site from solid waste in accordance with 14 CCR Section
18984.1.

   B.   Self-Haulers shall haul their source separated organic waste to
a solid waste facility, operation, activity, or property that processes
or recovers source separated organic waste approved by the City.

   C.   Self-Haulers shall haul their source separated organic waste to
an approved facility not less than every seven (7) days utilizing their
own equipment and labor.

   D.   Self-Haulers that are commercial businesses (including
multi-family residential dwellings) shall keep a record of the amount of
organic waste delivered to each solid waste facility, operation,
activity, or property that processes or recovers organic waste. This
record shall be subject to inspection by the City or City designee. The
records shall include the following information:

      1.   Delivery receipts and weight tickets from the entity
accepting the waste.

      2.   The amount of material in cubic yards or tons transported by
the generator to each entity.

   E.   Self-Haulers that are commercial businesses (including
multi-family self-haulers) shall provide information collected in
Section 9(d) to the City or City designee no later than the 15th of each
month for the previous month’s activities.

   F.   An application must be approved by the City or its designee
prior to commencing self-haul activities.

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

8.70.090 Compliance with CALGreen Recycling Requirements.

   A.   Persons applying for a permit from the City for new construction
and building additions and alterations shall comply with the
requirements of this Section and all required components of the
California Green Building Standards Code, 24 CCR, Part 11, known as
CALGreen, as amended, if its project is covered by the scope of the
regulation.

   B.   For projects covered by CALGreen, the applicants must, as a
condition of the City’s permit approval, comply with the following:

      1.   Where five (5) or more multi-family dwelling units are
constructed on a building site, provide readily accessible areas that
serve occupants of all buildings on the site and are identified for the
storage and collection materials, consistent with the recommendations of
the franchised hauler, or comply with provision of adequate space for
recycling for multi-family and commercial premises pursuant to Sections
4.408.1, 4.410.2, 5.408.1, and 5.410.1 of the California Green Building
Standards Code, 24 CCR, Part 11 as amended provided amended requirements
are more stringent than the CALGreen requirements for adequate recycling
space effective January 1, 2020.

      2.   New commercial construction or additions resulting in more
than thirty (30) percent of the floor area shall provide readily
accessible areas identified for the storage and collection of materials,
consistent with the recommendations of the franchised hauler, or shall
comply with provision of adequate space for recycling for multi-family
and commercial premises pursuant to Sections 4.408.1, 4.410.2, 5.408.1,
and 5.410.1 of the California Green Building Standards Code, 24 CCR,
Part 11 as amended provided amended requirements are more stringent than
the CALGreen requirements for adequate recycling space effective January
1, 2020.

      3.   Comply with CALGreen requirements and applicable law related
to management of C&D, including diversion of organic waste in C&D from
disposal. Comply with City’s C&D ordinance, Chapter 8.05 of City’s
municipal code, and all written and published City policies and/or
administrative guidelines regarding the collection, recycling,
diversion, tracking, and/or reporting of C&D.

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

8.70.100 Model Water Landscaping Ordinance Requirements.

   A.   Property owners or their building or landscape designers,
including anyone requiring a building or planning permit, plan check, or
landscape design review from the City, who are constructing a new
(single-family, multi-family, public, institutional, or commercial)
project with a landscape area greater than five hundred (500) square
feet, or rehabilitating an existing landscape with a total landscape
area greater than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet, shall
comply with Title 23, CCR, section 492.6(a)(3) (B), (C), (D), and (G) of
the MWELO, including sections related to use of compost and mulch as
delineated in this Section.

   B.   The following compost and mulch use requirements that are part
of the MWELO are now also included as requirements of this chapter.
Other requirements of the MWELO are in effect and can be found in 23
CCR, Division 2, Chapter 2.7.

   C.   Property owners or their building or landscape designers that
meet the threshold for MWELO compliance outlined in Subsection A above
shall:

      1.   Comply with Title 23, CCR, section 492.6(a)(3) (B), (C), (D),
and (G) of the MWELO, which requires the submittal of a landscape design
plan with a soil preparation, mulch, and amendments section to include
the following:

         a.   For landscape installations, compost at a rate of a
minimum of four (4) cubic yards per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
permeable area shall be incorporated to a depth of six (6) inches into
the soil. Soils with greater than six (6) percent organic matter in the
top six (6) inches of soil are exempt from adding compost and tilling.

         b.   For landscape installations, a minimum three- (3-) inch
layer of mulch shall be applied on all exposed soil surfaces of planting
areas except in turf areas, creeping or rooting groundcovers, or direct
seeding applications where mulch is contraindicated. To provide habitat
for beneficial insects and other wildlife up to five (5) percent of the
landscape area may be left without mulch. Designated insect habitat must
be included in the landscape design plan as such.

         c.   Organic mulch and compost materials made from recycled or
post-consumer materials that comply with 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12,
Article 12 shall be used. Other products such as inorganic materials or
virgin forest products must be approved by the City prior to use.
Organic mulches are not required where prohibited by local fuel
modification plan guidelines or other applicable local ordinances.

      2.   The MWELO compliance items listed in this Section are not an
inclusive list of MWELO requirements; therefore, property owners or
their building or landscape designers that meet the threshold for MWELO
compliance outlined in Subsection A shall consult the full MWELO for all
requirements.

   D.   If, after the adoption of this chapter, the California
Department of Water Resources, or its successor agency, amends 23 CCR,
Division 2, Chapter 2.7, 492.6(a)(3)(B), (C), (D), and (G) of the MWELO
September 15, 2015 requirements in a manner that requires jurisdictions
to incorporate the requirements of an updated MWELO in a local
ordinance, and the amended requirements include provisions more
stringent than those required in this Section, the revised requirements
of 23 CCR, Division 2, Chapter 2.7 shall be enforced.

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

8.70.110 Procurement Requirements for City Departments, Direct Service
Providers, and Vendors.

All vendors providing paper products and printing and writing paper
shall:

   A.   If fitness and quality are equal, provide recycled-content paper
products and recycled-content printing and writing paper that consists
of at least thirty (30) percent, by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber
instead of non-recycled products whenever recycled paper products and
printing and writing paper are available at the same or lesser total
cost than non-recycled items.

   B.   Provide paper products and printing and writing paper that meet
Federal Trade Commission recyclability standard as defined in 16 Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR) Section 260.12.

   C.   Certify in writing, under penalty of perjury, the minimum
percentage of postconsumer material in the paper products and printing
and writing paper offered or sold to the City. This certification
requirement may be waived if the percentage of postconsumer material in
the paper products, printing and writing paper, or both can be verified
by a product label, catalog, invoice, or a manufacturer or vendor
internet website.

   D.   Certify in writing, on invoices or receipts provided, that the
paper products and printing and writing paper offered or sold to the
City is eligible to be labeled with an unqualified recyclable label as
defined in 16 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Section 260.12 (2013).

   E.   Provide records to the City designee within thirty (30) days of
the purchase (both recycled-content and non-recycled content, if any is
purchased) made by any division or department or employee of the City.
Records shall include a copy (electronic or paper) of the invoice or
other documentation of purchase, written certifications as required in
subsection D and E of this Section for recycled-content purchases,
purchaser name, quantity purchased, date purchased, and recycled content
(including products that contain none), and if non-recycled content
paper products and printing and writing paper are provided, include a
description of why recycled-content paper products and printing and
writing paper were not provided.

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

8.70.120 Inspections and Investigations.

   A.   City representatives, and/or designee, are authorized to conduct
Inspections and investigations, at random or otherwise, of any
collection container, self-hauler vehicle loads, or community compost
facility for materials collected from generators, or source separated
materials to confirm compliance with this chapter by organic waste
generators, commercial businesses (including multi-family residential
dwellings), property owners, commercial edible food generators,
self-haulers, food recovery services, and food recovery organizations,
subject to applicable laws. This Section does not allow City or City
designees to enter the interior of a private residential property for
inspection.

   B.   Regulated entity shall provide or arrange for access during all
inspections (with the exception of residential property interiors) and
shall cooperate with the City’s employee or designee during such
inspections and investigations. Such inspections and investigations may
include confirmation of proper placement of materials in containers,
edible food recovery activities, records, or any other requirement of
this chapter described herein. Failure to provide or arrange for access
to an entity’s premises or access to records for any inspection or
investigation is a violation of this chapter and may result in penalties
described.

   C.   Any records obtained during inspections and other reviews shall
be subject to the requirements and applicable disclosure exemptions of
the Public Records Act as set forth in Government Code Section 6250 et
seq.

   D.   City representatives, or City designee, are authorized to
conduct any inspections or other investigations as reasonably necessary
to further the goals of this chapter, subject to applicable laws.

   E.   The City shall receive written complaints from persons regarding
an entity that may be potentially non-compliant with SB 1383
Regulations, including receipt of anonymous complaints. Written
complaints must include the following:

      1.   If the complaint is not anonymous, name and contact
information of the complainant;

      2.   Identity of the alleged violator, if known;

      3.   A description of the alleged violation;

      4.   Relevant evidence to support the complaint;

      5.   The identity of any witnesses.

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

8.70.130 Enforcement.

   A.   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute
grounds for issuance of a Notice of Violation (NOV) and assessment of a
fine by a City Enforcement Official or representative. Enforcement
actions under this chapter are issuance of an administrative citation
and assessment of a fine. The City’s procedures on imposition of
administrative fines are hereby incorporated in their entirety, as
modified from time to time, and shall govern the imposition,
enforcement, collection, and review of administrative citations issued
to enforce this chapter and any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to
this chapter, except as otherwise indicated in this chapter.

   B.   Other remedies allowed by law may be used, including civil
action or prosecution as misdemeanor or infraction. City may pursue
civil actions in the California courts to seek recovery of unpaid
administrative citations. City may choose to delay court action until
such time as a sufficiently large number of violations, or cumulative
size of violations exist such that court action is a reasonable use of
City staff and resources.

   C.   Responsible Entity for Enforcement.

      1.   Enforcement pursuant to this ordinance may be undertaken by
the City Enforcement Official or their designated entity.

      2.   Enforcement may also be undertaken by a Regional or County
Agency Enforcement Official, designated by the City.

         a.   Enforcement official(s) will interpret ordinance;
determine the applicability of waivers, if violation(s) have occurred;
implement enforcement actions; and, determine if compliance standards
are met.

         b.   Enforcement official(s) may issue Notices of Violation(s).

   D.   Process for Enforcement.

      1.   Enforcement and/or designee will monitor compliance with the
chapter randomly and through compliance reviews, route reviews,
investigation of complaints, and an inspection.

      2.   The City may issue an official notification to notify
regulated entities of its obligations under the chapter.

      3.   For incidences of prohibited container contaminants found in
containers, the City or designee will issue a Notice of Violation to any
generator after determining that a violation has occurred. If prohibited
container contaminants are observed in a generator’s containers, the
City may assess contamination processing fees or contamination penalties
on the generator.

      4.   Notice of Violation(s) require compliance within sixty (60)
days of issuance of the notice.

      5.   Absent compliance by the respondent within the deadline set
forth in the Notice of Violation, City shall commence an action to
impose penalties, via an administrative citation and fine, pursuant to
applicable law.

         Notices shall be sent to the property owner or, if no such
address is available, to the owner at the address of the dwelling or
commercial property or to the party responsible for paying for the
collection services, or a combination thereof depending upon available
information.

   E.   Penalty Amounts for Types of Violations. The penalty levels are
as follows:

      1.   For a first violation, the amount of the base penalty shall
be fifty dollars ($50) per violation.

      2.   For a second violation, the amount of the base penalty shall
be one hundred dollars ($100) per violation.

      3.   For a third or subsequent violation, the amount of the base
penalty shall be two hundred fifty ($250) per violation.

   F.   Compliance Deadline Extension Considerations. The Jurisdiction
may extend the compliance deadlines set forth in a Notice of Violation
issued if it finds that there are extenuating circumstances beyond the
control of the respondent that make compliance within the deadlines
impracticable, including the following:

      1.   Acts of God such as earthquakes, wildfires, flooding, and
other emergencies or natural disasters;

      2.   Delays in obtaining discretionary permits or other government
agency approvals; or,

      3.   Deficiencies in organic waste recycling infrastructure or
edible food recovery.

   G.   Appeals Process. Persons receiving an administrative citation
containing a penalty for an uncorrected violation may request a hearing
to appeal the citation. A hearing will be held only if it is requested
within the time prescribed and consistent with City’s procedures in the
City’s codes for appeals of administrative citations. Evidence may be
presented at the hearing. The City will appoint a hearing officer who
shall conduct the hearing and issue a final written order.

   H.   Education Period for Non-Compliance. The City or City designee
will conduct inspections, route reviews or waste evaluations, and
compliance reviews of organic waste generators, self-haulers, tier one
commercial edible food generators, food recovery organizations, food
recovery services, or other entity to determine compliance.

   I.   Civil Penalties for Non-Compliance. Beginning January 1, 2024,
if the City determines that an organic waste generator, self-hauler,
tier one or tier two commercial edible food generator, food recovery
organization, food recovery service, or other entity is not in
compliance with this chapter, it shall document the noncompliance or
violation, issue a Notice of Violation, and take enforcement action.

[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]

TITLE 9
PUBLIC PEACE, SAFETY AND MORALS

Chapters:

   9.05   Firearms and Other Weapons

   9.10   Trespassing and Loitering

   9.15   Motorcycles and Off-Road Vehicles

   9.20   Motorcycle and Off-Road Vehicle Events

   9.25   Regulation of Ephedrine Purchases

   9.30   False Police Alarms

   9.35   Use of Parks, Recreation Facilities and Other Public Places

   9.40   Regulations for Use of Skate Parks

   9.45   Graffiti Abatement

   9.50   Blinder Racks; Adult Video Recordings

   9.55   Distribution of Notices and Handbills

   9.60   Curfew Regulations

   9.65   Storage, Use and Sale of Fireworks

   9.70   Emergency Response Cost Recovery - DUI

   9.75   Responding to Disorderly Gatherings

   9.80   Illegal Dumping - Forfeiture of Nuisance Vehicles

   9.85   [Repealed]

   9.90   Consumption and Possession of Alcoholic Beverages in Public
Places

   9.95   [Repealed]

   9.100   Psychoactive Bath Salts, Psychoactive Herbal Incense and
Other Synthetic Drugs

   9.110   Noise Control

Chapter 9.05
FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS

Sections:

   9.05.010   Discharge of Firearms and Other Weapons

   9.05.020   Possession of Crossbow, Longbow, BB Gun or Pellet Gun by
Persons Under the Age of Eighteen (18) years

   9.05.030   Violation a Misdemeanor

9.05.010 Discharge of Firearms and Other Weapons.

   A.   It is unlawful for any person to shoot, fire or discharge any
crossbow, longbow, weapon commonly known as a BB or pellet gun, rifle,
pistol, revolver, shotgun or other firearm of any kind within the City.

   B.   The prohibitions set forth in Section 9.05.010.A. shall not
apply to the following:

      1.   Peace officers in the lawful discharge of their duty;

      2.   Persons engaged in pest control in an agricultural area;

      3.   Persons on their own property or with the permission of the
owner of the property when such discharge conforms to all other
applicable statutes;

      4.   Persons at an authorized shooting gallery or target range for
which prior approval from the City Manager or his designee has been
granted;

      5.   Persons engaged in the lawful defense of self, others or
property;

      6.   Persons using blank cartridges at a parade, funeral or
theatrical production;

      7.   Persons using a device commonly known as a “line gun” to
project a rope, string or other cord for an otherwise lawful purpose.

9.05.020 Possession of Crossbow, Longbow, BB Gun or Pellet Gun by
Persons Under the Age of Eighteen (18) Years.

   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to possess any crossbow, longbow or any weapon commonly known as a
BB gun or pellet gun within the City.

   B.   The prohibitions set forth in Section 9.05.020.A. shall not
apply to the following:

      1.   Persons under the age of eighteen (18) years who are closely
supervised by an adult and the owner of the property where such activity
occurs has given prior permission for such activity;

      2.   Persons under the age of eighteen (18) years who have in
their possession written permission from a parent or legal guardian to
possess a crossbow, longbow, BB gun or pellet gun for a specified
purpose and specified period of time.

9.05.030 Violation a Misdemeanor.

Any person who violates any provision or who fails to comply with any of
the requirements of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for
each and every violation and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
in accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.20.010 through 1.20.040
of Chapter 1.20 of Title 1 of this Code.

Chapter 9.10
TRESPASSING AND LOITERING

Sections:

   9.10.010   Chapter Application

   9.10.020   Provisions Not to Be Deemed Duplicative of State Law

   9.10.030   Sitting or Lying on Public Ways

   9.10.040   Obstructing Entrances

   9.10.050   Private Property

   9.10.060   Trespass by Refusal to Leave

   9.10.070   Trespass by Prohibited Entry

   9.10.080   Form of Notification

   9.10.090   Exceptions

9.10.010 Chapter Application.

This Chapter applies to the City of Adelanto.

9.10.020 Provisions Not to Be Deemed Duplicative of State Law.

No provision contained in this Chapter is intended, nor shall it be
deemed or construed, to make punishable any act or acts which are
prohibited by any law of the State.

9.10.030 Sitting or Lying on Public Ways.

No person shall sit, lie or sleep in or upon any highway, alley,
sidewalk or crosswalk or other public way within the City. The
provisions of this Section do not prohibit sitting upon a public
highway, alley, sidewalk or crosswalk or other public way open for
pedestrian travel if:

   A.   Necessitated by the physical disability of such person; or

   B.   Viewing a legally conducted parade; or

   C.   On a bench lawfully installed for such purposes; or

   D.   So authorized or directed by a peace officer or a public safety
officer.

9.10.040 Obstructing Entrances.

No person shall loiter, stand or sit in or at the entrance of any
church, hall, public business, or place or public assemblage within the
City so as to obstruct such entrance.

9.10.050 Private Property.

No person shall enter or remain upon any drive-in or take-out restaurant
property, automobile parking lot, shopping center property or any other
place open to the public without the implied or expressed consent of the
owner, his agent or person in lawful possession thereof, or with
knowledge that such consent has been withdrawn, in such manner as
unreasonably to obstruct or interfere with the free passage of any
vehicle or person. Nor shall any person drive a motor vehicle or remain
in a motor vehicle on any drive-in or take-out restaurant property,
automobile parking lot, shopping center property or any other place open
to the public without the implied or expressed consent of the owner, his
agent or person in lawful possession thereof, or with knowledge that
such consent has been withdrawn, so as to unreasonably annoy or molest
any person thereon or as to unreasonably obstruct or interfere with the
free passage of any vehicle or person.

9.10.060 Trespass by Refusal to Leave.

No person shall remain on any private property or business premises
after being notified by the owner or lessee or other person in charge
thereof to remove therefrom.

9.10.070 Trespass by Prohibited Entry.

No person, without permission, express or implied, of the owner or
lessee or other person in charge of private property or business
premises, shall enter upon such private property or business premises
after having been notified by the owner or lessee or other person in
charge thereof to keep off or keep away therefrom.

9.10.080 Form of Notification.

Within the meaning of Sections 9.10.060 and 9.10.070, notification by
the owner or lessee or other person in charge of the property of
premises may be satisfied by direct verbal communication by any such
person or by his duly designated agent, including a peace officer or
private patrolman, or by sign conspicuously posted on the property or
premises giving notice of the prohibition of the particular from of
trespass involved.

9.10.090 Exceptions.

This Chapter shall not apply in any of the following instances:

   A.   Where its application results in or is coupled with any act
prohibited by the Unruh Civil Rights Act (which forbids a business
establishment generally open to the public, from unreasonably and
arbitrarily excluding any prospective customer, and from practicing any
racial or other prohibited discrimination);

   B.   Where its application results in or is coupled with an act
prohibited by any other provision of law relating to unlawful
discrimination against any person on account of color, race, religion,
creed, ancestry or national origin;

   C.   Where its application results in or is coupled with an act
prohibited by Section 365 of the California Penal Code or any other
provision of law relating to duties of innkeepers and common carriers;

   D.   Where its application would result in an interference with or
inhibition of peaceful labor picketing or other lawful labor activities;

   E.   Where its application would result in an unreasonable
interference with or an unreasonable inhibition of any other exercise of
a constitutionally protected right of freedom of speech such as (but not
limited to) peaceful expressions of political or religious opinions, not
involving conduct otherwise punishable criminally under such laws as
Penal Code Section 647c (obstruction of a street, sidewalk or other
public area), or Penal Code Section 415 (disturbing the peace); or

   F.   Where the person who is upon another’s private property or
business premises is there under claim or color of legal right. This
exception is applicable (but not limited to) the following types of
situations involving disputes wherein the participants generally have
suitable civil remedies readily available to them: Marital and
post-marital disputes; child custody or visitation disputes; disputes
regarding title to or rights in real property; landlord-tenant disputes;
disputes between members of the same family or between persons residing
upon the property concerned up until the time of the dispute;
employer-employee disputes; business-type disputes such as those between
partners; debtor-creditor disputes; and instances wherein the person
claims rights to be present pursuant to order, decree or process of a
court.

Chapter 9.15
MOTORCYCLES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES

Sections:

   9.15.010   Regulation of Operation of Motor Vehicles, including
Motorcycles and Off-Road Vehicles

   9.15.020   Motor Vehicle Operation - Off-Road Dust Provision

   9.15.030   Violations of Section 9.15.010 or 9.15.020 - Removal of
Motor Vehicle

   9.15.040   Exemptions

9.15.010 Regulation of Operation of Motor Vehicles, including
Motorcycles and Off-Road Vehicles.

No person shall drive any motor vehicle, including a motorcycle, motor
driven cycle or off-road vehicle, on any land belonging to or occupied
by another without having and, upon request of a peace officer,
displaying written permission from the owner of such land or his agent,
or the person in lawful possession thereof, provided that this Section
shall not be applicable to persons having visible or lawful business
with said owner, agent or person in lawful possession.

9.15.020 Motor Vehicle Operation - Off-Road Dust Provision.

No person shall drive any motor vehicle, including a motorcycle, motor
driven cycle or off-road vehicle, on any land in such a manner as to
create any dust or dirt emission beyond any boundary line of the parcel
upon which the off-road vehicle is being operated.

9.15.030 Violation of Section 9.15.010 or 9.15.020 - Removal of Motor
Vehicle.

Any person who violates any provision of Section 9.15.010 or 9.15.020 of
this Chapter is guilty of an infraction on the first violation. On the
second and any subsequent violation of the same Section, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor and may be arrested by any peace officer for
such violation. If such peace officer arrests a violator of
Section 9.15.010 or 9.15.020, he may remove such motor vehicle from the
private property. Within two (2) working days of the removal of the
motor vehicle, the removing agency shall make all notifications required
to comply with Vehicle Code Section 22852.

9.15.040 Exemptions.

The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the operation of
vehicles upon property used for raceways or racing facilities in
accordance with a license or permit issued by the City pursuant to
Chapter 9.20 of this Code.

Chapter 9.20
MOTORCYCLE AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLE EVENTS

Sections:

   9.20.010   Definitions

   9.20.020   Permit Required

   9.20.030   Application

9.20.010 Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this Chapter:

   A.   “Off-road Vehicle” means any motor driven vehicle designed to be
utilized on other than improved roadways for recreational purposes such
as, but not limited to, dune buggies.

   B.   “Event” means any gathering of more than ten (10) off-road
vehicles or motorcycles for a recreational outing such as, but not
limited to, hound and hare races, rallies, closed course races,
hill-climbs and enduro races.

9.20.020 Permit Required.

It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to organize, conduct
or participate in an off-road vehicle or motorcycle event within the
corporate limits of the City, unless a permit for such event has first
been issued by the Chief of Police as hereafter provided.

9.20.030 Application.

Applications for a permit to organize or conduct an off-road vehicle or
motorcycle event shall be in the form of a letter requesting permission
to organize and conduct an event. The letter shall describe the proposed
event. The Chief of Police shall grant the permit if he determines that
the event will apparently be conducted in compliance with all applicable
laws and regulations, that the proposed location will be desirable to
the public convenience and welfare, that the proposed operation will not
create any undue fire hazard, and that such operation is of sufficient
distance from occupied areas so as not to cause excessive noise, dust or
fumes affecting the occupied areas. The Chief of Police, upon granting
of said permit, may attach whatever conditions and terms are necessary
or appropriate to carry out the objectives stated in this Section.

Chapter 9.25
REGULATION OF EPHEDRINE PURCHASES

Sections:

   9.25.010   Legislative Purpose

   9.25.015   Definitions

   9.25.020   Limitation on Sales

   9.25.025   Penalties

9.25.010 Legislative Purpose.

   A.   The City Council finds that there is a current and immediate
threat to the public health, safety and welfare in that the manufacture,
processing, transportation, possession and sale of illicit narcotics and
drugs are inherently dangerous and that chemicals, compounds,
substances, byproducts and wastes which are associated with the
manufacture of illicit narcotics and drugs are both dangerous and
injurious to the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the City.

   B.   The City Council finds that there has been a dramatic increase
of sales, reports of sales, thefts and possession of over the counter
drugs which contain substances known as ephedrine, pseudoephedrine,
pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, ephedrine hydrochloride and
pseudoephedrine sulfate, along with other substances and products
associated with the manufacture of methamphetamine and that retailers
are regularly victimized by those persons who steal those substances,
drugs and products on a regular basis.

   C.   The City Council finds that the general public does not normally
purchase the described products in multiple quantities, and it is not
the City Council’s intent to restrain legitimate businesses or customers
from selling or purchasing the described products.

   D.   No provisions of this Chapter shall hinder or supersede any
other applicable state or federal statute.

9.25.015 Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this Chapter:

   A.   “Ephedrine” means any drug, substance or compound, whether legal
or illegal, that contains ephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine
sulfate, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine or ephedrine.

   B.   “Retailer” means any single geographic location of any retail
business, company, corporation, person, employee or associate who
furnishes, distributes, sells or gives away products as described in
this Section.

   C.   “Customer” means any person who purchases or acquires the
products described in this Section or persons who are present for the
purchase or acquisition of the products described in this Section.

   D.   “Sell” means to furnish, give away, exchange, transfer, deliver,
surrender or supply, whether for monetary gain or not.

   E.   “Count” means the number of pills, tablets, capsules or
individual units of a substance contained within an individual package,
box or container.

9.25.020 Limitation on Sales.

   A.   No retailer shall sell to a single customer more than three (3)
packages, per transaction, of a product containing ephedrine. No
retailer shall sell to a single customer, per transaction, products
containing ephedrine where the total count exceeds one hundred (100).

   B.   No customer shall acquire more than three (3) packages, per day,
of a product containing ephedrine. No customer shall acquire, per day,
products containing ephedrine where the total count exceeds one hundred
(100).

9.25.025 Penalties.

   A.   Any person, customer or retailer violating any of the provisions
of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six (6) months or
by both such fine and imprisonment.

Chapter 9.30
FALSE POLICE ALARMS

Sections:

   9.30.010   Definitions

   9.30.020   Response Service Charge

   9.30.030   Waiver for Special Circumstances

   9.30.040   Service Charge a Debt

9.30.010 Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this Chapter:

   A.   “Alarm System” shall mean any device designed for the detection
and/or apprehension of persons effecting unauthorized entry and/or
attempted entry into any premises, or for alerting emergency services
entities of the commission of an unlawful act or requirement for
emergency service, which device, when actuated, emits a sound beyond the
business premises or residential unit or dwelling protected by such
device or transmits a signal or message to another location. It also
means combination of approved compatible devices with the necessary
electrical interconnection and energy to produce an alarm signal in the
event of fire or system activation.

   B.   “Emergency Services Entities” means the City Police Department
and/or Fire Department.

   C.   “False Alarm” shall mean an activated alarm or alarm signal from
any alarm which is responded to within the City by the City’s emergency
services entity or entities, but for which no emergency situation exists
or where there is no evidence to indicate that there was an emergency
situation as determined by the responding officer. “False alarm” shall
not include those alarms activated by extraordinary meteorological,
atmospheric or other conditions or means as determined by said emergency
services entity or entities.

   D.   “Fiscal Year” shall mean the period from and including July 1 of
any year to and including June 30 of the following year.

   E.   “Person” shall mean individual, partnership, corporation or
other entity.

9.30.020 Response Service Charge.

A service charge which is established by resolution of the City Council
in order to defray costs incurred in providing law enforcement services
in response to a false alarm shall be paid to the City, by each person
who possesses premises, for each third and subsequent emergency services
entity response made to those premises generated by a false alarm during
any fiscal year.

9.30.030 Waiver for Special Circumstances.

Where practical difficulties make it impossible or extremely difficult
to comply with this Chapter, the City Manager or his authorized
representative may issue a waiver of any service charge to be billed,
subject to such terms and conditions as he may deem necessary to protect
the public health and safety so that the spirit of this Chapter shall be
observed, the public health and safety secured and substantial justice
done.

9.30.040 Service Charge a Debt.

The alarm service charge shall be a civil debt owing the City from the
owner, occupant or person in possession, charge or control of the
location of the alarm unit. If an invoice for the service charge is
unpaid sixty (60) days after mailing, a penalty of ten percent (10%)
shall be charged, and an additional one and one-half percent (1-1/2%)
per month shall be charged until the charges and penalties are paid in
full.

If court action is taken to enforce non-payment of charges, the owner,
occupant or person in possession, charge or control of the location of
the alarm unit shall pay all reasonable attorney’s fees and costs
incurred by the City in collecting the debt.

Chapter 9.35
USE OF PARKS, RECREATION FACILITIES AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES

Sections:

   9.35.010   Declaration of Policy

   9.35.020   Definitions

   9.35.030   Compliance

   9.35.040   Specific Acts Prohibited

   9.35.050   Reserved

   9.35.060   Groups of Seventy-Five (75) or More

   9.35.070   Smoking in Parks and Recreation Facilities

   9.35.080   Amplified Sound in City Parks

   9.35.090   Alcoholic Beverages in City Parks and Facilities

   9.35.100   Inflatable Structures in Public Parks

   9.35.110   Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages in Public Places

   9.35.120   Bodily Functions Prohibited in Public Places

   9.35.130   Enforcement

9.35.010 Declaration of Policy.

City parks, public recreational facilities, public rights-of-way and
other public places are established for the use and enjoyment of all
persons for, among other purposes, pursuit of active or passive
recreation. It is the City's responsibility to promote the health,
peace, safety, welfare and convenience of all persons in regards to
their use and enjoyment of such public places. The City Council finds
that the regulations set forth in this Chapter are necessary to ensure
that all persons may use and enjoy such public places in a safe manner.

[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]

9.35.020 Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this Chapter:

   A.   "Alcoholic Beverage(s)" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 23004 of the California Business and Professions Code, as the
same presently exists, or as the same may be amended from time to time.

   B.   "City Manager" means the City Manager of the City or the person
authorized by said City Manager to act in his or her stead with respect
to the provisions of this Chapter.

   C.   "Inflatable Structure" means inflatable structures or equipment,
commonly used for jumping, bouncing, sliding, riding, or as an apparatus
for sports and recreational activities. The term includes, but is not
limited to, inflatable buildings, castles, roofs, covers, slides,
swimming pools, boxing rings, and obstacle courses.

   D.   "Public Facility" means any public building or structure owned
or controlled by the City, and any public park.

   E.   "Public Right-of-Way" means any place of any nature which is
dedicated to use by the public for pedestrian and vehicular travel, and
includes, but is not limited to, a street, sidewalk, curb, gutter,
crossing, intersection, parkway, highway, alley, lane, mall, court, way,
avenue, boulevard, road, roadway, viaduct, subway, tunnel, bridge,
thoroughfare, park square, and other similar public way.

   F.   "Public Park" means a park, playground, recreation center,
tennis courts, swimming facility, sports field, ballfield and/or open
space or other area owned or controlled by the City and open to use by
the public.

[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]

9.35.030 Compliance.

No person shall enter, be or remain in any City park unless such person
complies with all the regulations and conditions set forth in this
Chapter. The provisions of this Chapter, however, shall not apply to
emergency police, fire or public utility services.

[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]

9.35.040 Specific Acts Prohibited.

Every person who willfully within any public park, public facility or
public right-of-way commits any of the acts set out in this Section or
violates any other prohibition in this Chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable in accordance with Sections 1.20.010 through
1.20.040 of Chapter 1.20 of Title 1 of this Code. The prohibited acts
include the following:

   A.   To hitch, fasten, lead, drive or let loose any animal or fowl of
any kind, except in areas which may be designated by the City Manager,
provided that this shall not apply to dogs and cats when led by a leash
and under full control by its owner or custodian.

   B.   To ride or drive any skates, skateboard, horse or other animal,
or to propel any vehicle, cycle, bicycle, skateboard, skates or
automobile, except in areas designated for purposes of vehicle or other
travel or otherwise by the City Manager. This provision does not apply
to any vehicle being used for authorized City business, nor to any
police or other emergency vehicle performing an authorized mission, nor
to a vehicle which is within a park pursuant to written permission of
the City Manager. Neither does this provision apply to any electrically
driven wheelchair carrying a physically incapacitated person.

   C.   To enter, remain, stay or loiter in any park or facility between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day without
permission from the City Manager or except as a participant in an
activity permitted by the City Manager.

   D.   To light or maintain any fire or to cook, prepare, serve or eat
any meal other than at a stove, barbecue, fire circle or other place
provided for that purpose.

   E.   To possess, carry or discharge any firearms, firecrackers,
rockets, explosives or any other fireworks, air gun, bow and arrow,
slingshot or any similar device or weapon; nor shall any person carry
into or use any other object within a park with the intent of disturbing
the peace of any person by means of noise or otherwise.

   F.   To throw, project, propel or drive upon a lawn or across any
public park, public walkway or driveway within a public park any
missile, model airplane, model car, go-carts or other self-propelled
devices and vehicles not covered under the California Vehicle Code,
capable of causing personal injury or damage to personal property,
except at such places designated therefore by the City Manager.

   G.   To drive, hit or putt any golf ball or to use any golf club in
any public park or upon any pathway or trail, except in such areas as
may be designated by the City Manager for that purpose.

   H.   To cut, break, injure, deface or destroy any tree, shrub, plant,
rock, building, cage, pen, monument, sidewalk or paved area, fence,
bench or other structure, apparatus or property, or pull up, cut, take
or remove any shrub, bush, plant or flower, or mark or write upon, paint
or deface in any manner any building, monument, bench, sidewalk, paved
area or other structure. This prohibition shall not apply to any
employee or contractor of the City engaged in work on the City's behalf.

   I.   To cut or remove any wood, turf, grass, soil, rock, gravel, sand
or fertilizer from a public park or from any place within a public park.

   J.   To camp or lodge therein except by permission in writing by the
City Manager.

   K.   To throw, discard, place or dispose of any garbage or refuse in
any place other than in a garbage can or other receptacle maintained for
that purpose.

   L.   To park any vehicle on any road or path except at places
designated for parking.

   M.   To play or bet at or against any game which is played,
conducted, dealt or carried on with cards, dice or other devices for
money, chips, shells, credit or other representative of value, or
maintain or exhibit any gambling table or other instrument of gambling
or gaming. This prohibition shall not apply to simulated gambling games
or to bingo games when conducted by a non-profit organization during
fund raising events pursuant to a permit or reservation issued by the
City Manager pursuant to this Code and in compliance with all other
applicable law.

   N.   To hold any meeting, service, concert, event or exhibition
without first obtaining written permission from the City Manager, if
required by this Code.

   O.   To engage in any commercial activity, including but not limited
to the selling, offering for sale, advertising for sale or solicitation
for future delivery or performance of any goods, wares, merchandise or
services, except pursuant to a specific concession or contract granted
by the City or a permit therefore.

   P.   To interfere with the use of any scheduled group or activity
that has received a permit from the City for use of said park.

   Q.   To place, use or operate an inflatable structure without a
permit issued pursuant to this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15; Ord. No. 537, Section 2, 2/24/16;
Ord. No. 603, Section 2, 7/10/19.]

9.35.050 Reserved.

9.35.060 Groups of Seventy-Five (75) or More.

   A.   Compliance Required. No person or group may hold, conduct or
allow, and no person shall participate in, any picnic, celebration,
parade, event, gathering, assembly or meeting at which seventy-five (75)
persons or more are in attendance in any public park, public facility or
public right-of-way within the City unless such activity is conducted in
accordance with the. provisions of this Section, in addition to any
other applicable provisions of this Code.

   B.   Permit Required. Except as provided in subsection (C) of this
Section, a special event permit must be obtained from the City Manager
for any picnic, celebration, parade, event, gathering, assembly or
meeting to be held in any public park, public facility or public
right-of-way if seventy-five (75) persons or more will be in attendance.

   C.   Exempt Activity. The following activities are exempt from the
permit requirement set forth in this Section:

      1.   Celebrations, parades, events, gatherings, assemblies or
meetings which take place on streets, sidewalk or other public
rights-of-way owned or controlled by the City, if such activities are
conducted in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations,
including, but not limited to, traffic and safety regulations.

      2.   Filming and videotaping activity governed by, and conducted
in accordance with, Chapter 13.45 of this Code.

      3.   Activities conducted by a governmental agency acting within
the scope of its authority.

   D.   Issuance of Permits. The City Manager is authorized to issue
special event permits pursuant to the procedures set forth in this
Section. Issuance of a special event permit pursuant to this Section
does not obligate or require the City to provide services, equipment or
personnel in support of an event. The City Manager may, however, cause
such services, equipment or personnel to be provided if such are
reasonably available and the event organizer agrees to reimburse the
City for the cost thereof. The City Manager may reduce or waive any
portion of such costs associated with the provision of City services,
equipment or personnel in support of an event if the payment of the full
costs will create an undue financial hardship on the person or group
obtaining the permit.

   E.   Permit Application Timing. Applications for a special event
permit required under this Section shall be filed with the City Manager
at least seventy-two (72) hours prior to the time the special event is
proposed to be conducted. The City Manager shall have the authority, if
good cause is shown and the nature of the application reasonably and
feasibly lends itself to expedited processing, to consider, grant or
deny and application for a special event permit which is filed later
than seventy-two (72) hours prior to the time the special event is
proposed to be conducted.

   F.   Contents of Application. Applications for a special event permit
shall be upon a form which is furnished by or acceptable to the City
Manager. Each application shall contain full, complete and detailed
information including, but not limited to, the following:

      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the event
organizer;

      2.   The nature of the event and the proposed location of the
event;

      3.   The date(s) and time(s) when the event will be conducted;

      4.   A certification that the event organizer shall be financially
responsible for any City fees, departmental service charges or costs
that may lawfully be imposed for the event;

      5.   Insurance information, if applicable; and

      6.   Any other information reasonably required by the City
Manager.

   G.   Permit Issuance. The City Manager shall issue a special event
permit if the City Manager finds that all of the following criteria have
been met:

      1.   The event will not substantially interrupt public
transportation or other vehicular or pedestrian traffic in the area of
its location;

      2.   The event will not conflict with construction or development
in the public right-of-way or at a public facility;

      3.   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles for the
event will not unreasonably interfere with the movement of police, fire,
ambulance and other public safety or emergency vehicles within the
public rights-of-way in the area of the proposed event location;

      4.   The event will not unreasonably interfere with any other
event for which a special event permit has already been granted, or with
the provision of City services in support of any other scheduled event
or scheduled government function;

      5.   The event will not have an unmitigable adverse impact on
residential or business access and traffic circulation in the area of
the proposed event location;

      6.   The event will not adversely affect the City's ability to
reasonably perform municipal functions or furnish City services;

      7.   The proposed event will not have a significant adverse
environmental impact; and

      8.   The insurance provisions required by this Section, if
applicable, have been or will be satisfied.

   H.   Permit Denial or Revocation. The City Manager may deny an
application for a special event permit or revoke a special event permit
if the City Manager finds any of the following:

      1.   One or more of the findings set forth is subsection G. of
this Section cannot be made;

      2.   The application contains incomplete, false or misleading
information;

      3.   The applicant fails to comply with all terms of this Chapter;

      4.   The proposed event will violate any federal, state and/or
local law or regulation; or

      5.   The proposed event will present an unreasonable danger to the
health or safety of the applicant, spectators, City employees and/or
members of the public.

   I.   Notice of Denial or Revocation. A person or organization whose
special event permit application is denied, or whose permit is revoked,
shall be immediately notified of the denial or revocation in writing,
which notification shall contain a statement setting forth the reasons
for the denial or revocation, as well as reference to the appeal
provisions set forth in subsection M. of this Section.

   J.   Permit Conditions. The City Manager may condition any special
event permit issued pursuant to this Section with reasonable
requirements concerning the time, place and manner of holding the event
as is necessary to coordinate multiple uses of public property, assure
preservation of public property and public places, prevent dangerous,
unlawful or impermissible uses, protect the safety of persons and
property, and control vehicular and pedestrian traffic in and around the
venue. Possible conditions include, but are not limited to, the
following:

      1.   Conditions designed to avoid or lessen interference with
public safety functions and/or emergency service areas;

      2.   The number and type of vehicles, animals or structures to be
displayed or used in the event;

      3.   The inspection and approval by City personnel of stages,
booths, structures, vehicles or equipment to be used or operated during
the event to ensure that such items are safely constructed, can be
safely operated and conform to the requirements of all applicable laws
and regulations;

      4.   The provision and use of traffic cones or barricades;

      5.   The provision of a waste management plan, and the cleanup and
restoration of the event site;

      6.   The obtaining of any and all business licenses or other
necessary permits required by this Code for the sale of food, beverage
or other goods or services at the event; and

      7.   The manner by which alcohol sales and service, if any, shall
be conducted during the event.

   K.   Insurance and Indemnification. The organizer of a special event
shall possess or obtain, and maintain for the duration of the event,
comprehensive general liability insurance to protect the City against
loss from liability imposed by law for damages on account of bodily
injury and property damage arising from the event. Such insurance shall
be in a combined single limit of at least One Million dollars
($1,000,000), shall name the City, its officers, employees, and agents
as additional insureds, and shall be effectuated through an insurance
endorsement. If the special event is of a demonstrated high or low risk
category, according to recognized insurance and risk management
standards, the City Manager may authorize a greater or lesser amount of
coverage than set forth in this subsection, or may require a particular
type of insurance coverage different from that specified in this
subsection. In addition to obtaining and maintaining the required
insurance, each permittee shall execute an agreement in a form approved
by the City agreeing to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City
against any and all losses and liabilities arising from the conduct of
the permittee, or its officers, employees or agents, relating to the
permitted event.

   L.   Waiver of Insurance Requirements. Except for special events
where the sale of alcoholic beverages is authorized, the insurance
requirements set forth in subsection K. of this Section may be reduced
or waived by the City Manager. If insurance is reduced or waived, the
City Manager may still require the permittee to defend, indemnify and
hold harmless the City from any claim or liability arising from the
event. In making the determination of whether to reduce or waive
insurance requirements, the City Manager shall consider the following
factors:

      1.   Whether the special event is constitutionally protected
speech and/or expressive activity;

      2.   Whether the applicant has determined that the cost of
obtaining insurance is financially burdensome and would constitute an
unreasonable burden on the right of constitutionally protected speech
and/or expressive activity;

      3.   Whether it is objectively impossible to obtain insurance
coverage;

      4.   Whether the event will involve the use of equipment, vehicles
or animals, or will pose an unreasonable danger to participants or the
public; and

      5.   Whether a fee or donation is charged or required as a
condition of admission or participation in the event.

   M.   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by the denial or revocation of a
permit pursuant to this Section may appeal such decision to the City
Council by filing a written notice of such appeal with the City Clerk
within ten (10) business days of the decision of the City Manager giving
rise to said appeal. Such appeal shall set forth in detail the facts
upon which the appeal is being made. The City Council shall, within ten
(10) business days of receiving such notice of appeal, hold a hearing.
When the necessity for a timely response so requires, the appeal may be
referred by the City Clerk to a neutral Hearing Officer. Costs for the
neutral Hearing Officer shall be borne by the appellant, if any costs
are incurred. At the appeal hearing, the aggrieved party and the City
shall be entitled to be heard and present evidence they believe to be
relevant. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the City Council or the
Hearing Officer may, with findings, approve, reverse or modify the
decision of the City Manager. Any decision of the City Council or the
Hearing Officer shall be final.

[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]

9.35.070 Smoking in Parks and Recreation Facilities.

No person shall be permitted to smoke in any public park or public
facility. Smoking shall include, but is not limited to: the combustion
of any cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any similar article; the use of any
form of tobacco or other combustible substance in any form; the use of
electronic smoking devices, electronic cigarettes, electronic
cigarillos, electronic pipes, electronic hookahs, vaporizers, vape pens,
or any other inhalation device that generates an inhalable substance of
any kind from tobacco, marijuana, or any other weed or plant.

[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]

9.35.080 Amplified Sound in City Parks.

   A.   The intent of this Section is to reasonably regulate the use of
parks within the City in such a manner that various groups may enjoy
such parks without unduly interfering with or creating conflicts with
other groups, and to ensure that if public address systems, amplified
instruments or percussion instruments are used within the parks, that
they shall be used in such place and manner that they will not unduly
interfere with or be an annoyance to other groups or individual people
who may be using the parks at the same time or to the surrounding
neighborhood.

   B.   Public address systems, acoustical instruments and/or
electrically amplified instruments are prohibited unless the City
Manager finds the amplification meets the criteria stated in Section
9.35.080.A., and the amplification use is approved in writing by and in
the sole discretion of the City Manager.

[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]

9.35.090 Alcoholic Beverages in City Parks and Facilities.

The possession (open and closed containers), consumption, sale,
transportation or disbursement of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in
public parks , public facilities or public right-of-way, unless a permit
is obtained and approved in writing by the City Manager pursuant to
Section 9.90.020, and in that event only in compliance with the
conditions and restrictions of that permit.

[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]

9.35.100 Permits.

   A.   Permit Required. Any person desiring to place, operate, stage
and/or use an inflatable structure in a public park shall first file a
written application with, and receive a permit from, the City Manager.

   B.   Application Contents. Any person or authorized representative
desiring a permit to place, operate, and/or use an inflatable structure
in a city park shall file, at least one week prior to the anticipated
event, an application for such a permit. The application shall be on a
form provided by the City, shall be signed by the applicant under
penalty of perjury, shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee
established by resolution of the City Council, and shall include the
following information:

      1.   The name and contact information of the applicant.

      2.   The name and contact information of the vendor providing the
inflatable structure, if any.

      3.   A statement describing the kind, type or nature of the
inflatable structure.

      4.   The name of the insurance carrier; the amount of personal and
property liability, naming the City as an additional insured, carried
together with the name of the nearest representative and his/her
business address.

      5.   The number of people expected to use the inflatable
structure.

      6.   The location where the inflatable structure will be placed,
operated, and used.

      7.   The date when the inflatable structure will be placed,
operated, and used.

      8.   A description of how the inflatable structure and/or other
attraction will be self-contained.

   C.   Review and issuance of permit. The City Manager shall issue a
permit for the requested inflatable structure if he/she determines that
placement, operation and use of the structure in the proposed location
and manner will not do any of the following:

      1.   Unreasonably interfere with the public's use of the city park
or any other event for which a permit has been granted;

      2.   Unreasonably interfere with the provision of a City or
emergency service;

      3.   Present an unreasonable danger to the health or safety of the
applicant, persons who will use the inflatable structure, spectators,
City employees and/or members of the public.

   D.   Permit Conditions. A permit issued pursuant to this Section
shall include the following conditions:

      1.   The designated area for the placement and use of the
inflatable structure.

      2.   The date, and starting and ending times, for the placement
and use of the inflatable structure.

      3.   Any damage to City property directly attributable to the
placement or use of the inflatable structure shall be the sole
responsibility of the applicant.

      4.   The applicant to whom the permit is issued must have in his
or her possession a copy of the permit at all times during the placement
and use of the inflatable structure.

      5.   The inflatable structure must be operated at all times
pursuant to the terms and conditions included in the permit.

      6.   The inflatable structure shall not be operated or used for
commercial purposes.

      7.   Such other requirements as are found by the City Manager or
his/her designee to be reasonably necessary for the protection of the
public or City property, including, but not limited to, reasonable
insurance requirements.

[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]

9.35.110 Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages in Public Places.

It is unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage(s) while
upon any public street, alleyway, sidewalk, park or parkway, whether in
a motor vehicle or otherwise, within the City.

[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]

9.35.120 Bodily Functions Prohibited in Public Places.

Any person who, in any public park, street, alley, highway, public
meeting, assembly or other public place, or in the immediate
neighborhood thereof and in view from the same places, urinates or
defecates, is guilty of a misdemeanor, provided that this Section shall
not be applicable to the act of urinating or defecating in a proper
receptacle in a restroom or bathroom in any enclosed structure.

[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]

9.35.130 Enforcement.

Except as otherwise provided, the City Manager shall have the primary
responsibility for the enforcement of this Chapter. Each police and law
enforcement officer of the City is given permission to enter the public
and restricted parts of all parks and public facilities to maintain
public order or to prevent, remedy or take other appropriate action with
respect to violations of the provisions of this Chapter or of other
applicable laws or regulations.

[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]

Chapter 9.40
REGULATIONS FOR USE OF SKATE PARK

Sections:

   9.40.010   Definitions

   9.40.020   Skate Park Facility Use Regulations

   9.40.030   Posting of Skate Park Facility Regulations

   9.40.040   Penalties

   9.40.050   Seizure of Evidence

   9.40.060   Administrative Citations

9.40.010 Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this Chapter:

   A.   “Skateboard” shall mean a board-like object which has two (2)
axles attached to the bottom of the board-like object with one (1) or
two (2) wheels attached to each axle, and the user rides or stands upon
the board-like object and may include a handlebar.

   B.   “In-line Skates,” also known as “roller blades,” are footwear
containing four (4) or more axles mounted in a straight line extending
generally from or behind the heel of the footwear to or in front of the
toe of the footwear with a single wheel attached to each axle.

   C.   “Roller Skates” are any footwear or device which may be attached
to the foot or footwear to which wheels are attached and such wheels may
be used by the wearer in moving.

   D.   “Amplified Sound” means music, sound wave, vibration or speech
projected or transmitted by electronic equipment.

   E.   “City Manager” means the City Manager of the City, or the person
authorized by the City Manager to act in his or her stead with respect
to the provisions of this Chapter.

9.40.020 Skate Park Facility Use Regulations.

   A.   All users of a City skate park facility are required to wear
appropriate safety gear, including helmets, elbow pads, wrist guards and
knee pads at all times while inside the fenced skate park.

   B.   The skate park facility is for use by persons using skateboards,
roller skates and in-line skates only. All other uses are prohibited.

   C.   No smoking, alcohol or drug use allowed in or around the skate
park facility.

   D.   No food or drink allowed in or on the skating facility.

   E.   No graffiti or tagging of the facility.

   F.   The use of profanity is prohibited.

   G.   The use of amplified music is prohibited.

   H.   Due to safety concerns, spectators who are not skating may not
enter the fenced skate park. Spectators must remain outside the fence.

   I.   No animals are allowed inside the fenced area of the facility,
whether on a leash or not.

   J.   Skateboarding, roller skating and in-line skating are hazardous
activities. All persons using the skate park facility shall do so at
their own risk.

9.40.030 Posting of Skate Park Facility Regulations.

The Parks and Recreation Manager shall ensure that the skate park
facility is posted with signs affording reasonable notice of the
following:

   A.   Park hours of operation shall be posted as approved by the City
Manager.

   B.   Skateboarding, roller skates and in-line skating are hazardous
activities. Skate at your own risk.

   C.   Skateboards, roller skates and in-line skates only.

   D.   Bicycles or motorized vehicles are prohibited.

   E.   Failure to wear helmets, knee pads, wrist guards and elbow pads
will subject persons to citation.

   F.   Skating on park grounds, curbs, parking lot and entrance
sidewalks is prohibited.

   G.   No graffiti or tagging.

   H.   No glass bottles.

   I.   No food or drink allowed on the skating surface.

   J.   No smoking, alcohol or drug use allowed in the skate park or
immediate area.

   K.   No spectators permitted inside the fenced skate area.

   L.   No unauthorized pieces of equipment, obstacles or apparatus may
be brought into the skate area.

9.40.040 Penalties.

A violation of any part of this Chapter is an infraction, and the fine
for such violation shall be as follows:

   A.   For a first offense, the fine shall be twenty-five dollars
($25.00).

   B.   For a second offense, the fine shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).

   C.   For a third or subsequent offense within any twelve (12) month
period, the fine shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00), and the
offender’s right to use the skate park facility shall be suspended for a
period of not less than six (6) consecutive months.

   D.   The parent or legal guardian having control or custody of an
unemancipated minor whose conduct violates this Chapter shall be jointly
and severally liable with the minor for any fines imposed pursuant to
this Chapter.

9.40.050 Seizure of Evidence.

Any device used in the violation of any provision of this Chapter shall
be seized by the enforcing officers and removed, stored and reclaimed in
accordance with law.

9.40.060 Administrative Citations.

   A.   Notwithstanding the provisions in Section 9.40.040.A., any
violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter may be, but is not
required to be, prosecuted as an administrative citation procedure
pursuant to this Section.

   B.   Any enforcement official may issue an administrative citation to
any responsible party whom the enforcement official determines has
violated any Section of this Chapter.

   C.   The enforcement official shall attempt to obtain on the
administrative citation the signature of the responsible party. If a
responsible party of person served refuses or fails to sign the
administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect
the validity of the citation or of subsequent proceedings.

   D.   The administrative citation shall contain at a minimum the
following:

      1.   The date and location of the violation and the approximate
time the violation occurred.

      2.   The Code Section violated and a description of how the
Section was violated.

      3.   The amount of the fine imposed for the violation and the time
within which and the place at which the fine shall be paid.

      4.   An order prohibiting another occurrence of the Code
violation.

      5.   A description of the administrative citation review process,
including the time within which to contest the administrative citation
and the place from which to obtain a request for hearing form to contest
the administrative citation.

      6.   The name and signature of the citing enforcement official.

   E.   Administrative Fine. The administrative fine in the amount set
forth in Section 9.40.040.A., or such other amount as may be set from
time to time by resolution of the City Council, shall be paid to the
City within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of service of the
administrative citation.

   F.   Any responsible party to whom an administrative citation is
issued may contest the citation no later than thirty (30) days from the
date of service of the administrative citation by:

      1.   Completing and returning to the City a request for hearing
form, which may be obtained from the City Clerk, or other written notice
of appeal that contains a specific identification number of the subject
citation, the name and address of the appellant, a statement in ordinary
and concise language of the specific(s) or action protested and the
grounds for contesting the citation, together with all material facts in
support thereof, and the date and signatures of the appellant; and

      2.   Depositing the administrative fine with the City.

   G.   The person requesting the hearing shall be provided written
notice of the time and place of the hearing at least five (5) calendar
days before the date of the hearing, either by causing a copy of such
notice to be delivered to the appellant personally or by mailing a copy
thereof, postage prepaid, addressed to the appellant at his/her address
shown on the written notice of appeal. The City shall set the date and
time for the administrative hearing not less than seven (7) calendar
days and not more than ninety (90) calendar days from the date the
notice of appeal is filed and the administrative fine is deposited with
the City, provided, however, that no hearing to contest an
administrative citation shall be held unless the full penalty amount has
been deposited in advance. The administrative hearing will be conducted
by the City Manager or his/her designee. If the responsible party fails
to attend the scheduled hearing, the hearing will proceed without the
responsible party; and he or she will be deemed to have waived his or
her right to an administrative hearing.

   H.   Within ten (10) days after the date on which the administrative
hearing concludes, the administrative hearing officer shall issue a
written decision to uphold or cancel the administrative citation. The
administrative hearing officer shall set forth the reasons for the
decision. The decision shall be served upon the responsible party. If
the administrative hearing officer upholds the administrative citation,
the City shall retain the fine deposited by the responsible party. If
the administrative hearing officer cancels the administrative citation,
the fine deposited with the City shall be promptly refunded. The
administrative hearing officer's written decision is final, and he/she
shall notify the responsible party of his or her right to appeal as
provided herein.

   I.   The City may collect any past due administrative fine by use of
any available legal means.

   J.   Appeal of Decision of Administrative Hearing Officer. Within
twenty (20) days after service of the decision of the administrative
hearing officer upon the responsible party, he or she may seek review of
the decision by filing a notice of appeal with the municipal court. The
responsible party shall serve upon the City Clerk either in person or by
first class mail a copy of the notice of appeal. If the responsible
party fails to timely file a notice of appeal, the administrative
hearing officer's decision shall be deemed confirmed.

   K.   Penalties. Failure to pay an administrative fine is a violation
of this Code. Filing a criminal action does not preclude the City from
using any other legal remedy available to gain compliance with the
administrative order.

[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10]

Chapter 9.45
GRAFFITI ABATEMENT

Sections:

   9.45.010   Purpose and Intent

   9.45.020   Definitions

   9.45.030   Graffiti Prohibited

   9.45.040   Possession of Graffiti Implements by Minors Prohibited

   9.45.050   Possession of Graffiti Implements Prohibited in Designated
Public Places

   9.45.060   Accessibility to Graffiti Implements Prohibited

   9.45.070   Graffiti Removal Provisions

   9.45.080   Rewards

   9.45.090   Penalties and Civil Liability of Parents

9.45.010 Purpose and Intent.

The City Council finds graffiti on public or private property a
blighting element which leads to depreciation of the value of property
which has been targeted by such vandalism and depreciates the value of
the adjacent and surrounding properties to the extent that graffiti
creates a negative impact upon the entire City.

The City Council finds and determines that graffiti is obnoxious and a
public nuisance and must be eliminated by means of prevention, education
and abatement to avoid the detrimental impact of such graffiti on the
City and its residents, and to prevent the further spread of graffiti.

The purpose and intent of the City Council, through the adoption of this
Chapter, is to provide additional enforcement tools to protect public
and private property from acts of vandalism and defacement. It is the
further intent of the City Council, through the adoption of this
Chapter, to provide notice to all of those who disregard the property
rights of others, that the law enforcement agencies of the City, the
Police Department, Code Compliance Section and the City Attorney, will
strictly enforce the law and vigorously prosecute those persons engaging
in violations of this Chapter.

9.45.020 Definitions.

   A.   “Aerosol Paint Container” means any aerosol container which is
adapted or made for the purpose of spraying paint or other substance
capable of defacing property.

   B.   “Felt Tip Marker” means any tipped style marker or similar
implement with a tip which, at its broadest width, is one-eighth (1/8)
inch or greater.

   C.   “Graffiti” means any unauthorized inscribing, word, figure or
design which is marked, etched, scratched, drawn, painted, pasted or
otherwise affixed to or on any surface, regardless of the nature of the
material of that structural component, to the extent the same was not
authorized in advance by the owner thereof, or despite advance
authorization, is otherwise deemed by the City Council to be a public
nuisance.

   D.   “Graffiti Implement” means an aerosol paint container, a felt
tip marker or any other device containing any solution or substance
capable of being used to leave a visible mark at least one-eighth (1/8)
of an inch in width upon any surface.

9.45.030 Graffiti Prohibited.

   A.   No person shall place graffiti or other writing upon any public
or privately owned tree or structure including, but not limited to,
buildings, walls, fences, poles and signs, (“structures” hereinafter in
this Chapter) located within the City. It shall also be unlawful for any
person to apply or affix any adhesive backed label, sticker, “bumper
sticker” or similar item to any tree or structure not owned or lawfully
possessed by such person.

   B.   No person owning or otherwise in control of any real property
within the City shall permit or allow any graffiti to be placed upon or
remain on any structure located on such property.

9.45.040 Possession of Graffiti Implements by Minors Prohibited.

Possession of any graffiti implement by any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years with the intent to deface property while upon public
or private property shall be unlawful unless that minor has received the
consent of the owner of such private property whose consent to such
possession and presence is given in writing in advance or unless that
minor is accompanied by and under the supervision of a parent or legal
guardian. This provision shall not apply to the possession of felt tip
markers by minors attending or traveling to or from a school at which
the minor is enrolled, if the minor is participating in a class at said
school which formally requires possession of such felt tip markers. The
burden of proof in any prosecution for violation of this Section shall
be upon the minor student to establish the need to possess a felt tip
marker.

9.45.050 Possession of Graffiti Implements Prohibited in Designated
Public Places.

Possession of any graffiti implement by any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years with the intent to deface property while in any
public park, playground, swimming pool, recreational facility or while
in or within ten (10) feet or an underpass, bridge abutment, storm drain
or other similar type of infrastructure not normally used by the public,
shall be unlawful except as may be authorized by the City or unless that
minor is accompanied by and under the supervision and control of a
parent or legal guardian.

9.45.060 Accessibility to Graffiti Implements Prohibited.

   A.   Furnishing of Graffiti Implements to Minors Prohibited. It shall
be unlawful for any person, other than a parent or legal guardian, to
sell, exchange, give, loan or otherwise furnish or cause or permit to be
exchanged, given, loaned or otherwise furnished, any graffiti implement
to any minor without the consent of the parent or lawful guardian which
consent shall be given in advance in writing.

   B.   Display Requirements. No person or business engaged in a
commercial enterprise shall display for sale, trade or exchange, any
graffiti implement except in an area from which the public shall be
securely precluded without employee assistance. Two such acceptable
methods for displaying graffiti implements for sale shall be by
containment in (1) a completely enclosed cabinet or other storage device
which shall be permanently affixed to a building or structure, and which
shall, at all times except during access by authorized representatives,
remain securely locked; or (2) in an enclosed area behind a sales or
service counter from which the public is precluded from entry. Nothing
herein shall relieve such person or business entity from, at all times,
complying with the requirements of California Penal Code Section
594.1(c) by posting signs as described therein.

   C.   Storage Requirements. No person or business engaged in the
business of selling, providing or trading graffiti implements shall
store any graffiti implement except in either (1) a completely enclosed
room which shall, at all times except during access or actual occupancy
by the owner or an authorized adult representative of the owner, remain
securely locked; or (2) a completely enclosed cabinet or other storage
device which shall be permanently affixed to a building or building
structure, and which shall, at all times except during access by the
owner or an authorized adult representative of the owner, remain
securely locked. For purposes of this Section, an owner or authorized
representative of the owner, shall be deemed to actually occupy a room
even during brief periods of absence if the room is contained within a
larger structure which is occupied by the owner.

   D.   Civil Responsibility for Damages for Wrongful Display or
Storage. Any person who displays or stores or permits the display or
storage of any graffiti implement in violation of the provisions of this
Section shall be personally liable for any and all costs, including
attorney’s fees and court costs, incurred by any party in connection
with the removal of graffiti, the repair of any property containing
graffiti, or such party’s prosecution of a civil claim for reimbursement
or damages resulting from such graffiti removal or property repair,
arising from the use by any person or such wrongfully displayed or
stored graffiti implement in violation of the provisions of any of the
California Penal Code Sections or in violation of this Chapter.

9.45.070 Graffiti Removal Provisions.

   A.   Right of City to Require Removal. It is unlawful for any person
who is the owner or who has primary responsibility for control of
property or who has primary responsibility for the repair or maintenance
of property (“Responsible Party” hereinafter in this Section), to permit
said property to be defaced with graffiti for a period of seven (7) days
after service by the City by first class mail of notice of same, unless
(1) said person shall demonstrate by a preponderance of evidence that he
or she does not have the financial ability to remove the defacing
graffiti; or (2) it can be demonstrated that the Responsible Party has
an active program for the removal of graffiti and has scheduled the
removal of the graffiti as part of that program, in which case it shall
be unlawful to permit such property to remain defaced with graffiti for
a period of seven (7) days after service by first class mail of notice
of same.

   B.   Declaration of Nuisance.

      1.   Graffiti as a Nuisance. The City Council hereby declares and
finds graffiti to be a nuisance subject to abatement according to the
provisions and procedures herein contained and as authorized by
California Government Code Sections 38773, et seq.

      2.   Graffiti Attracting Surface as a Nuisance. The existence of
any surface of a structure on any privately owned parcel of land which
has been defaced with graffiti after removal more than five (5) times in
twelve (12) months is hereby deemed to be a nuisance, and may be abated
by the City by order of the City Council requiring modifications
thereto, or to the immediate area surrounding same. Such modifications
may include, but are not limited to: Retrofitting of such surfaces at
the expense of the property owner(s) of said lot, with such features or
qualities as may be established by the City as necessary to reduce the
attractiveness of the surface for graffiti, or as necessary to permit
more convenient, expedient or efficient removal of graffiti therefrom.

   C.   Right of City to Remove.

      1.   Use of Public Funds. Whenever the City becomes aware or is
notified and determines that graffiti is so located on public or
privately owned property viewable from a public or quasi-public place
within the City, the City shall be authorized to use public funds for
the removal of same, or for the painting or repairing of same, but shall
not authorize or undertake to provide for the painting or repair of any
more extensive area than that where the graffiti is located, unless the
City Manager, or designee, determines in writing that a more extensive
area is required to be repainted or repaired in order to avoid aesthetic
disfigurement to the neighborhood or community, or unless the
Responsible Party agrees to pay for the costs of repainting or repairing
the more extensive area.

      2.   Right of Entry on Private Property.

         (a)   Securing Owner Consent. Prior to entering upon private
property or property owned by a public entity other than the City, for
the purposes of removal of graffiti, the City shall attempt to secure
the consent of the Responsible Party and a release of the City from
liability for private or public property damage.

         (b)   Failure to Obtain Owner Consent. If a Responsible Party
fails to remove the offending graffiti within the time herein specified
or if the City shall have requested consent to remove or paint over the
offending graffiti and the Responsible Party shall have refused consent
for entry on terms acceptable to the City consistent with the terms of
this Section, the City may commence abatement and cost recovery
proceedings for the removal of the graffiti pursuant to the nuisance
abatement authority granted by California Government Code Sections
38773, et seq., which authority includes the recovery of all costs
incurred by the City in abating graffiti and recordation of lien as to
affected property.

   D.   Ease of Removal Provisions.

      1.   Common Utility Colors and Paint Type. Any gas, telephone,
water, sewer, cable, electrical and other utility operating in the City,
shall paint their freestanding, above-surface metal fixtures which are
installed after the effective date of this Chapter, with a uniform paint
type and color as directed by the City Manager.

      2.   Conditions on Encroachment Permits. Encroachment permits
issued by the City may, among other items, be conditioned on one (1)
permittee applying an anti-graffiti material to the encroaching object
or structure of a type and nature which is acceptable to the City
Manager, or his or her designee; (2) the immediate removal by the
permittee of any graffiti; (3) the right of the City to remove graffiti
or to paint the encroaching object or structure; (4) the permittee
providing the City with sufficient matching paint and/or anti-graffiti
material on demand for use in the painting of the encroaching object of
structure containing graffiti.

      3.   Conditions on Discretionary Approvals. In imposing conditions
upon conditional use permits, variances, building permits or other
similar land use entitlements or development or design applications, the
City may impose graffiti removal requirements or any or all of the
following conditions, or other similar or related conditions:

         (a)   Use of Anti-Graffiti Material. Applicant may be required
to apply an anti-graffiti material or provide a landscape design of a
type and nature which is acceptable to the City Manager, or his or her
designee, to such of the publicly viewable surfaces to be constructed on
the site deemed by the City Manager, or designee, to be likely to
attract graffiti (“Graffiti Attracting Surfaces” hereinafter in this
Section);

         (b)   Right of Access to Remove Graffiti. Applicant shall
grant, in writing, the right of entry over and access to such parcels,
upon forty-eight (48) hours posted notice, by authorized City employees
or agents, for the purpose of removing or “painting over” graffiti on
Graffiti Attracting Surfaces previously designated by the City Manager
or designee. Such grant shall be made an express condition of approval
and shall be deemed to run with the land;

         (c)   Supply City with Graffiti-Removal Material. Applicant,
and any and all successors in interest, shall, for a specified period of
years after approval, provide the City with sufficient matching paint
and/or anti-graffiti material on demand for use in the painting over or
removal of designated Graffiti Attracting Surfaces;

         (d)   Owner to Immediately Remove Graffiti. Persons applying
for subdivision maps shall, as part of any conditions, covenants and
restrictions, covenant, which covenant shall run with the land, in a
form satisfactory to the City, that the owners of the lots shall
immediately remove any graffiti placed on publicly viewable trees and
structures thereon to the City’s satisfaction.

9.45.080 Rewards.

   A.   Reward Authority.

      1.   Pursuant to Section 53069.5 of the California Government
Code, the City does hereby offer a reward in the amount as may be set by
resolution of the City Council, for the apprehension of or information
leading to the identity of, and the apprehension of or conviction of any
person for violation, within the City, of California Penal Code Sections
594 or 594.3 through the use of graffiti, of Penal Code Sections 640,
640.5, 640.6 or Sections 9.45.030, 9.45.040 or 9.45.050 of this Chapter.
In the event of multiple contributions of information, a reward amount
shall be divided by the City in the manner it shall deem appropriate.
For the purposes of this Subsection, diversion of the violator to a
community service program or plea bargain to a lesser offense, shall
constitute a conviction.

      2.   Claims for rewards under this Section shall be filed with the
City. Each claim shall:

         (a)   Specifically identify the date, location and kind of
property damaged or destroyed;

         (b)   Identify by name the person who was convicted;

         (c)   Identify the court and the date upon which the conviction
occurred.

      3.   No claim for a reward shall be allowed by the City Council
unless the City investigates and verifies the accuracy of the claim and
determines the requirements of this Section have been satisfied.

      4.   The person committing the graffiti vandalism, and if an
unemancipated minor, then the parent or lawful guardian of said minor
shall be civilly liable for any reward paid pursuant to this Section
pursuant to the provisions of California Government Code Section
53069.5.

   B.   Reimbursement of Cellular Phone Costs.

      The City shall reimburse to any person reporting by means of a
cellular phone an act of graffiti vandalism presently occurring within
the City, the amount of the actual phone charges, exclusive of taxes,
incurred by said person.

9.45.090 Penalties and Civil Liability of Parents.

   A.   Criminal Penalties. Any person who violates any provision or who
fails to comply with any of the requirements of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 1.20 of this Code, and by
the performance of community service in the form of graffiti clean up to
the maximum extent permitted by California Penal Code Section 594 and/or
any other such provision of law.

   B.   Additional Penalties Available. Whenever appropriate, the City
intends to petition a sentencing court to impose the following
additional penalties upon conviction:

      1.   Litter or graffiti clean up pursuant to California Vehicle
Code Section 42001.7 upon conviction of violation of California Vehicle
Code Sections 23111, 23112 or 23113(a).

      2.   Suspension or delay of issuance of a driver’s license
pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section 13202.6 upon a graffiti
vandalism conviction.

      3.   Performance of community service, including graffiti removal
service by any minor determined to be a ward of the court as a result of
committing a vandalism-related offense in the City, as provided in
California Welfare and Institutions Code Section 742.16.

      4.   Performance of community service, including graffiti removal
service of up to one hundred (100) hours by any minor determined to be a
ward of the court as a result of committing a drug related offense in
the City, as provided in California Welfare and Institutions Code
Section 729.8.

   C.   It is the City’s further intent that, pursuant to California
Penal Code Section 640.6(a), all acts of graffiti vandalism occurring
within the City shall be prosecuted as misdemeanors pursuant to
California Penal Code Section 594, et seq., or this Chapter.

   D.   Pursuant to California Civil Code Section 1714.1(b), any parent
or legal guardian whose minor child possesses a graffiti implement shall
be personally liable for any and all costs to any person or business
incurred in connection with the removal of graffiti caused by said minor
child, or by said graffiti implement, and for all law enforcement costs,
City staff costs, attorneys’ fees and court costs incurred in connection
with the civil prosecution of any claims for damages or reimbursement up
to the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00).

   E.   Pursuant to California Government Code Section 38773.6, the City
may abate any nuisance resulting from the defacement by a minor of
property by another by graffiti or other inscribed materials in
accordance with Sections 9.80.070.A., B., C. and D. Pursuant to the
procedures set forth in Chapter 1.22 of this Code, the City shall be
entitled to recovery of all costs incurred by the City under this
Chapter, including all nuisance abatement costs.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 17, 5/10/17.]

Chapter 9.50
BLINDER RACKS; ADULT VIDEO RECORDINGS

Sections:

   9.50.010   Blinder Racks

   9.50.020   Adult Video Recordings

9.50.010 Blinder Racks.

No person shall display or exhibit in any public place or place open to
the public, other than a location from which minors are excluded, any
material which is harmful to minors unless a device commonly known as a
“blinder rack” is in place so that the lower two-thirds (2/3’s) thereof
is not exposed to public view. For purposes of this Section, “harmful
matter,” “person,” “exhibit,” “minor” and “matter” are as defined in
California Penal Code Section 313 as currently in effect and as may be
amended.

9.50.020 Adult Video Recordings.

Any person who sells or rents video recordings of harmful matter shall
locate the area created within said person’s business establishment for
the placement of such video recordings as required by Section 313.1(e)
of the California Penal Code to an area labeled “adults only” which is
not adjacent to displays of video recordings which are of interest
primarily to children, nor shall any person who sells or rents video
recordings of harmful matter permit or allow minors to enter into or
remain in the “adults only” area unless the minor is accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian.

Chapter 9.55
DISTRIBUTION OF NOTICES AND HANDBILLS

Sections:

   9.55.010   Definitions

   9.55.020   Throwing or Distributing Handbills in Public Places

   9.55.030   Placing Handbills on Vehicles

   9.55.040   Distribution of Handbills Where Prohibition Posted

   9.55.050   Dropping Litter From Aircraft

   9.55.060   Posting Notices Prohibited

9.55.010 Definitions.

For the purpose of this Chapter the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include
the future, words used in the plural number include the singular number
and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The
word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.

   A.   “Aircraft” is any contrivance now known or hereafter invented,
used or designated for navigation or for flight in the air. The word
“aircraft” includes helicopters and lighter than air dirigibles and
balloons.

   B.   “Handbill” is any printed or written matter, any sample or
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter
of literature.

   C.   “Newspaper” is any newspaper of general circulation as defined
by the laws of the state and any other publication whether or not
designated a newspaper and which is regularly issued and printed and
containing in each issue local and other news of a general nature and
having advertising space in each issue thereof open to purchase by the
general public for the publication of general advertising matter
therein, or any other periodical or current magazine regularly published
and sold to the public with not less than four (4) issues per year.

   D.   “Person” is any person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.

   E.   “Private Premises” is any dwelling, house, building or other
structure designed or used whether wholly or in part for private
residential purposes, whether inhabited or vacant, and includes any
yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging to or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other
structure, and any business or professional establishment.

   F.   “Public Place” is any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards,
alleys or other public ways and any and all public parks, squares,
spaces, grounds and buildings.

   G.   “City” is the City of Adelanto.

   H.   “Vehicle” is every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.

9.55.020 Throwing or Distributing Handbills in Public Places.

No person shall throw, cast, distribute or deposit any handbill in or
upon any public place. Any person may hand out or distribute any
handbill without charge to any person willing to accept it.

9.55.030 Placing Handbills on Vehicles.

No person shall throw, cast, distribute or deposit any handbill in or
upon any vehicle provided, however, it shall not be unlawful in any
public place for a person to hand out or distribute a handbill without
charge to any occupant of a vehicle willing to accept it.

9.55.040 Distribution of Handbills Where Prohibition Posted.

No person shall throw, cast, distribute or deposit any handbill upon any
private premises, if there is placed on said premises in a conspicuous
position near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words “No
Trespassing,” “No Peddlers or Agents,” “No Advertisement” or any similar
notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants of the premises do
not desire to have any such handbills left upon the premises. The
provisions of this Section shall not apply to the distribution of mail
by the Unites States, or to newspapers, as defined herein in Section
9.55.010.C.

9.55.050 Dropping Litter From Aircraft.

No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the
City while aloft any litter, including, without limitation, any handbill
or other object.

9.55.060 Posting Notices Prohibited.

No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or
device, to any lamppost, public utility pole or shade tree in the public
right of way or on public property, or upon any public structure or
building, except as may be authorized or required by law.

Chapter 9.60
CURFEW REGULATIONS

Sections:

   9.60.010   Loitering by Minors After Curfew Prohibited

   9.60.015   Exceptions

   9.60.020   Daytime Loitering by Minors Prohibited

   9.60.025   Exceptions

   9.60.030   Responsibilities of Parents, Legal Guardians and/or
Custodians of Minors

9.60.010 Loitering by Minors After Curfew Prohibited.

It is unlawful for any minor to be in or upon the public streets,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, public buildings or other
places open to the public, places of amusement, eating establishments or
any vacant lots between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and sunrise immediately
following.

9.60.015 Exceptions.

The following are exceptions to the application of Section 9.60.010:

   A.   When the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, legal
guardian or other person having the care or custody of the minor; or

   B.   When the minor is engaged in or going directly to or returning
directly from any lawful activity with the written permission of the
minor’s parent or legal guardian; or

   C.   When the minor is traveling directly to or from his or her place
of gainful employment or to or from a medical appointment and the minor
can produce written evidence of same; or

   D.   When, with the approval of the minor’s parent, legal guardian or
other adult person having the care or custody of the minor, such minor
is traveling directly to or from a meeting, entertainment, recreational
or school activity, and the minor can produce written evidence of such
approval; or

   E.   During such time as the minor is exercising rights protected by
the First Amendment of the United States Constitution or Article I of
the California Constitution, including, but not limited to, free
exercise of religion, freedom of speech and/or freedom of assembly,
provided such minor has in his or her possession a form of written
consent signed by the minor’s parent or legal guardian. The form of
consent must state the hours during which the minor is permitted to be
away from home, the nature of the permitted activity(ies) involving the
exercise of constitutional rights and the specific location where the
minor is permitted to be during such hours; or

   F.   When the minor is emancipated pursuant to the law of any state,
provided the minor maintains written evidence of such emancipation in
his or her possession during curfew hours; or

   G.   When the minor is in a motor vehicle involved in interstate or
intrastate travel provided that in the event the minor is not
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, the minor possesses a
parent’s or guardian’s written consent thereto; or

   H.   When the minor is homeless.

9.60.020 Daytime Loitering by Minors Prohibited.

It is unlawful for any minor who is subject to compulsory education or
to compulsory continuing education to be in or upon the public streets,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, public buildings or other
places open the public, places of amusement, eating establishments or
any vacant lots during school hours and on school days applicable to
such minor.

9.60.025 Exceptions.

The following are exceptions to the application of Section 9.60.020:

   A.   When the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, legal
guardian or other adult person having the care or custody of the minor;
or

   B.   When the minor is on a medical emergency errand directed by his
or her parent, legal guardian or other adult person having care or
custody of the minor and can produce written evidence of same; or

   C.   When the minor is traveling directly to or from a medical
appointment and can produce written evidence of same; or

   D.   When the minor has in his or her possession written permission
or a permit to leave the school campus, or is traveling to or from, or
is otherwise engaged in an event or activity sponsored, sanctioned or
arranged for by the minor’s school and in which the minor is authorized
to participate; or

   E.   When the minor is receiving home or private school instruction
pursuant to Education Code Section 48222, or is receiving instruction by
a qualified tutor pursuant to Education Code Section 48224, or is
otherwise exempt by law from attendance at a public or private full-time
day school; or

   F.   When the minor is authorized to be absent from his or her school
pursuant to the provisions of Education Code Section 48205 or any other
applicable state or federal law.

9.60.030 Responsibilities of Parents, Legal Guardians and/or Custodians
of Minors.

It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or custodian of a minor to
knowingly permit or allow such minor to be in violation of any of the
provisions of Section 9.60.010 or 9.60.020 of this Chapter. In the event
of any conflict between this Section and California Penal Code Section
272 or any successor provision thereto, said Penal Code section shall be
deemed to govern.

Chapter 9.65
STORAGE, USE AND SALE OF FIREWORKS

Sections:

   9.65.010   Purpose

   9.65.015   Definition

   9.65.020   Sale and Discharge of Fireworks

   9.65.025   License Required; Application for License to Sell
Fireworks

   9.65.030   General Requirements for Fireworks Licensees

   9.65.035   Operation of Fireworks Stand

   9.65.040   Temporary Fireworks Stands

   9.65.045   Temporary Sales Tax Permit Required; Display of License
and Permit

   9.65.050   Prohibition on Discharge of Fireworks

   9.65.055   Penalties

9.65.010 Purpose.

The purpose of this Chapter is to bring the City's regulation of the use
of fireworks into compliance with the California State Fire Marshal's
Department regulations and to protect and secure the public health,
safety and general welfare.

[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13.]

9.65.015 Definition.

"Safe and Sane Fireworks" shall be as defined in Section 12504 of the
California Health and Safety Code, as that section may in the future be
amended.

[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13.]

9.65.020 Sale and Discharge of Fireworks.

“Safe and Sane Fireworks” may only be sold and/or discharged within the
City, and such discharge may only occur during the period beginning at
12:00 noon on the 28th day of June and ending at 11:59 pm on the 4th day
of July each year.

[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13; Ord. No. 599,
Section 3, 5/8/19.]

9.65.025 License Required; Application for License to Sell Fireworks.

   A.   Except as otherwise provided herein, no person shall offer for
sale or sell fireworks of any kind in the City, without having first
applied for and received a license therefore.

   B.   All applications for licenses to sell fireworks shall:

      1.   Be made in writing, accompanied by an initial license fee of
two hundred dollars ($200.00), which will be used to defray the cost of
administration, inspection and supervision of fireworks licensees. The
Temporary Business License application and Temporary Use Permit
application shall be incorporated into the Fireworks application; fees
for the Temporary Business License application and Temporary Use Permit
are incorporated into the application fee.

      2.   Be submitted between the first and the last day of March each
year, except when the last day falls on a day when City Hall is closed,
then the following business day shall be the last day.

      3.   Set forth the proposed location of the fireworks stand
applied for. Each stand must be on private property located in the "C"
zoning district or heavier industrial or manufacturing zones of the
City, or on public land at the sole discretion of the City. A notarized
statement from the owner of record of the property must accompany the
application.

      4.   Be accompanied by an agreement from the manufacturer and/or
wholesaler of the fireworks to defend, indemnify and hold the City
harmless from any claims, liability, litigation, damages or other
injuries resulting from defective fireworks.

      5.   Include a statement that the applicant agrees to comply
strictly with the terms of any license granted to it and furnish any
additional information upon request of the City Manager, the City
Council or their authorized employees and/or representatives.

   C.   At the time of issuance of the license, the applicant must
deliver to the Business License Department evidence of public liability
insurance in an amount not less than one hundred thousand dollars/three
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00/$300,000.00) and not less than
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) property damage insurance in the
form and content required by the City, certificated, and a copy of the
requisite permit from the State Fire Marshal.

   D.   At the time of application, each applicant shall submit a
non-refundable clean-up fee of either 6% of the organization’s prior
year’s net sales, or $600, whichever is greater, so that the City
recuperates cost of cleaning up after 4th of July holiday. If this is an
organization’s first year participating, the $600 rate shall apply.

[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13; Ord. No. 599,
Section 3, 5/8/19.]

9.65.030 General Requirements for Fireworks Licensees.

The following qualifications must be met by each applicant for a license
issued hereunder:

   A.   No license shall be issued to any person, firm or corporation
except non-profit associations or corporations organized primarily for
civic betterment or youth activities. Such organizations, groups or
individuals shall be limited to one (1) license.

   B.   Each such organization must have its principal and permanent
meeting place within the corporate limits of the City, must maintain a
bona fide membership of at least eighty percent (80%) of the
organization must be Adelanto residents, and must have been organized
and established in the City's corporate limits for a minimum of one (1)
year continuously preceding the filing of the application for the
business license.

   C.   No organization may receive more than one (1) license for
fireworks sale during any one (1) calendar year. One (1) license may be
issued to two (2) or more qualifying applicants as a joint venture, but
may only operate one (1) stand. The maximum number of licenses which may
be issued pursuant to this Chapter during any one (1) calendar year
shall not exceed one (1) license for each three thousand (3,000)
residents of the City, or fraction thereof, based on the latest official
roster, State of California census estimate.

   D.   If the number of applications exceeds the number of licenses
allowed to be issued, the licenses shall be granted by a drawing
supervised by the City Clerk. The drawing will be held at a Council
meeting, the applicants will be notified of the drawing date and
notification of selection will be performed the following day.

   E.   Reserved.

   F.   Reserved.

   G.   Reserved.

[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13; Ord. No. 599,
Section 3, 5/8/19; Ord. No. 605, Section 3, 8/28/19; Ord. No. 649,
Section 2, 3/13/24.]

9.65.035 Operation of Fireworks Stand.

   A.   No person other than the licensee organization shall operate the
stand for which the license is issued or share or otherwise participate
in the profits of the operation of such stand.

   B.   No person other than the individuals who are members of the
licensee organization, or the spouses or adult children of such members,
shall sell or otherwise participate in the sale of fireworks at such
stand(s) except that in no instance shall a person under the age of
eighteen (18) years be permitted to sell or otherwise participate in the
operation of the fireworks stand.

[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13; Ord. No. 599,
Section 3, 5/8/19.]

9.65.040 Temporary Fireworks Stands.

   A.   All fireworks sales must be made from within a temporary
fireworks stand, and sales from any other building or structure are
prohibited.

   B.   No fireworks stand shall be located within twenty-five (25) feet
of any other building nor within one hundred (100) feet of any gasoline
pump.

   C.   All stands shall be erected under the supervision of the
Building and Safety Department, and must be constructed in a manner that
will reasonably ensure the safety of attendants and patrons. Any
building and safety permit fees shall be waved.

   D.   No fireworks stand shall have a floor area in excess of three
hundred (300) square feet.

   E.   Each fireworks stand must have at least two (2) unobstructed
exits; and each stand in excess of forty (40) feet in length must have
at least three (3) unobstructed exits spaced approximately equidistant
apart, provided, however, that in no case shall the distance between the
exits exceed twenty-four (24) feet.

   F.   Each fireworks stand shall provide two (2), two and one-half
(2-1/2) gallon "water pressure" type or 2A10BC dry chemical type fire
extinguishers, underwriter approved, in good working order and easily
accessible for use in case of fire.

   G.   All weeds and combustible materials shall be cleared from the
location of the fireworks stand and for a distance of at least fifty
(50) feet from any point of the stand.

   H.   "No Smoking Within 100 Feet" signs must be prominently displayed
on the fireworks stand.

   I.   Each fireworks stand must have an adult in attendance and in
charge thereof while fireworks are stored therein, including an onsite
presence overnight while the stand is closed. Sleeping or remaining in
the fireworks stand after close of business each day is forbidden.

   J.   Each fireworks stand shall obtain a safety inspection and
clearance from the San Bernardino County Fire Department prior to
opening.

   K.   The sale of fireworks shall not begin before 12:00 noon on the
28th day of June and shall not continue after 11:59pm on the 4th day of
July.

   L.   Each fireworks stand shall display a sign of at least ten (10)
square feet stating that discharge of fireworks is only legal within the
City limits between 12:00 noon, June 28 and 11:59pm, July 4.

   M.   During the days allowed for the sale of fireworks, no sales
shall be made except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight.

   N.   All unsold stock and accompanying litter shall be removed from
the fireworks stand location by 5:00 p.m. on July 6.

   O.   The fireworks stand shall be removed, and the temporary site
cleared by 12:00 noon on the 10th day of July. If this requirement
cannot be met by the July 10th date, the stand operator must work with
City staff to arrange for a new pick up date.

   P.   Each organization operating or participating in a fireworks
stand shall submit, to the City, a financial statement of actual sales
and profit by 5:00 p.m. August 31, following the fireworks sale, unless
that day falls on a day when City Hall is closed, then the following
business day shall be the last day. The financial statements are subject
to review and approval by the City. The records shall be retained by the
City. Failure to comply will result in revocation of future license
eligibility.

[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13; Ord. No. 599,
Section 3, 5/8/19; Ord. No. 605, Section 3, 8/28/19.]

9.65.045 Temporary Sales Tax Permit Required; Display of License and
Permit.

   A.   Organizations licensed by the City for fireworks sales are
required to obtain a temporary sales tax permit from the State Board of
Equalization.

   B.   The temporary sales tax permit and the City license to sell
fireworks must be displayed in a prominent place in the fireworks stand.

[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13.]

9.65.050 Prohibition on Discharge of Fireworks.

It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite, explode, project or
otherwise fire or use, any fireworks or permit the ignition, explosion
or projection thereof, upon or over onto the property of another without
his/her consent, or to ignite, explode, project or otherwise fire or
make use of any fireworks within ten (10) feet of any residence,
dwelling or other structure used as a place of habitation, congregation
or assembly, or within one hundred (100) feet of any fireworks stand.

[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13.]

9.65.055 Penalties.

Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment not to
exceed one hundred eighty (180) days, or both fine and imprisonment.
Further, the fireworks sales license of any licensee who violates or
permits any provision of this Chapter to be violated shall be revoked
and the licensee shall not be entitled to receive a license for a period
of three (3) years thereafter.

[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13; Ord. No. 605,
Section 3, 8/28/19.]

Chapter 9.70
EMERGENCY RESPONSE COST RECOVERY - DUI

Sections:

   9.70.010   Purpose

   9.70.020   Findings

   9.70.030   Civil Liability

   9.70.040   Liability Upon Conviction

   9.70.050   Notice of Assessment of Cost Recovery Fees

   9.70.060   Payment of Cost Recovery Fees

   9.70.080   Administrative Review

   9.70.090   Appeal

9.70.010 Purpose.

This Chapter is adopted pursuant to municipal affairs provisions of the
City Charter for the following purposes:

   A.   To provide for the recovery of costs incurred by the Police
Department in the apprehension and arrest or citation of persons who are
convicted of an offense involving the driving of a vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug; and

   B.   To provide for the recovery of other costs incurred by the
Police and Fire Departments in responding to accidents caused by persons
who are convicted of an offense involving the driving of a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol or any drug.

9.70.020 Findings.

The City Council finds as follows:

   A.   That persons who drive a vehicle while under the influence of
alcohol or any drug create a serious hazard to themselves and others;

   B.   That the City’s Police and Fire Departments are required to
spend a significant amount of time in the apprehension and arrest of
persons who drive while under the influence of alcohol or any drug and
in responding to accidents caused by such persons;

   C.   That the time spent by the Police and Fire Departments for that
purpose is costly and detrimentally affects the ability of those
departments from being available to respond to other calls or incidents;

   D.   That, although the California Government Code, at Sections 53150
et seq., provides that persons who drive a vehicle under the influence
of alcohol or any drug shall reimburse the City for costs incurred in
making appropriate emergency responses to incidents caused by such
persons, the scope of that cost recovery provision is insufficient
because the apprehension and arrest of all drivers under the influence
of alcohol or any drug are expensive and time-consuming, even though
they may not require an emergency response; and

   E.   That all persons who are apprehended or arrested for driving
while under the influence of alcohol or any drug, as well as those who
cause an accident and who are subsequently convicted of driving while
under the influence of alcohol or any drug, should be required to
reimburse the City for the costs incurred by the Police Department in
such apprehension or arrest.

9.70.030 Civil Liability.

Any person who is arrested or cited by the Police Department for driving
a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or any drug and who is
subsequently convicted of such an offense, shall be assessed a cost
recovery fee for the purpose of reimbursing the City for all costs
incurred by the Police Department which were related to the making of
that arrest or issuance of that citation. In addition, if such driver
caused an accident while under the influence of alcohol or any drug, the
cost recovery fee assessed shall also include any additional costs which
were incurred by the Police or Fire Departments in responding to that
accident.

9.70.040 Liability Upon Conviction.

The civil liability imposed herein shall arise upon the conviction of a
person for an offense involving the driving of a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol or any drug. Convictions giving rise to such
liability shall include a conviction under Vehicle Code Section 23152 or
Sections 23103/23103.5 or any other violation of California law which
requires a findings that the person drove a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol or any drug. The term shall include a plea of
guilty or no contest as well as a finding of guilt by a judge or jury
after a trial.

9.70.050 Notice of Assessment of Cost Recovery Fees.

Upon the conviction of an offense giving rise to liability under the
provisions of this Chapter, the Chief of Police shall cause notice of
the assessment to be mailed to the person so convicted. In addition to
setting forth the amount of the cost recovery fees assessed pursuant to
this Chapter, such notice shall set forth the right of the person so
assessed to request administrative review of such assessment in the
manner provided herein.

9.70.060 Payment of Cost Recovery Fees.

When a cost recovery fee is assessed upon any person in the manner
provided by this Chapter, such fee will be due and payable on or before
the last day of the month in which the notice of the assessment was
mailed to the person assessed the fee. In the event of the failure of a
person so assessed to pay any such fee when due, a delinquent penalty of
ten percent (10%) shall be added to the fee on the last day of each
month after the due date thereof, provided, however, that the total
amount of such penalties shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
delinquent fees. In addition, in the event of the failure of a person
assessed a cost recovery fee to pay such fee when due, that person shall
be assessed interest on the amount of the delinquent fee, exclusive of
any penalties thereon, at the rate of one percent (1%) per month, or
fraction thereof, from the date the fee first became delinquent until
the date the fee is paid.

9.70.080 Administrative Review.

   A.   Right to Administrative Review. Any person aggrieved by a
determination to assess a fee in the manner provided for by this Chapter
or by a determination of the amount of the fee assessed, may apply to
the Chief of Police for administrative review of such determination.

   B.   Application for Administrative Review. Applications for
administrative review of the determination that a fee be assessed or the
amount of the fee assessed, shall be made in writing and shall be filed
with the Police Department no later than fifteen (15) days from the date
that notice of liability for the fee was mailed to the person liable
thereunder. In addition to setting forth a request for administrative
review of such determination, such application shall contain a brief
statement of the reasons why that person believes that such
determination does not comply with the provisions of this Chapter and
the relief being requested.

   C.   Decision on Application for Administrative Review. Upon the
filing of an application for administrative review of the determination
that a fee be assessed or the amount of a fee assessed under this
Chapter, the Chief of Police shall consider the application and render a
decision either affirming the determination or reversing or modifying
the determination. Prior to rendering a decision, the Chief of Police
shall consider the application and render a decision either affirming
the determination or reversing or modifying the determination. Prior to
rendering a decision, the Chief of Police, with sole discretion, may
convene a hearing for the purpose of reviewing evidence or hearing
arguments bearing on such decision. If such a meeting is convened,
notice of the date, time and place of such hearing shall be served by
mail on the person requesting administrative review a reasonable time
prior to such hearing. After rendering a decision, the Chief of Police
shall promptly cause written notice of the decision to be served by mail
on the person requesting the administrative review.

   D.   Payment of Cost Recovery Fee Following a Decision on Application
for Administrative Review. When the Chief of Police renders a decision
to affirm a determination to assess a fee or the amount of a fee, in
whole or in part, following the filing of an application for
administrative review of such determination, such fee or such part
thereof found by the Chief of Police to have been validly assessed shall
not be payable until the last day of the month immediately following the
month in which notice of such decision is mailed to the person against
whom the fee was assessed, provided, however, that if the decision of
the Chief of Police is appealed to the City Council, payment shall not
be due until the Council has acted on the appeal.

9.70.090 Appeal.

Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Chief of Police which is
rendered pursuant to the procedures for administrative review set forth
in this Chapter may appeal to the City Council. Such appeal shall be
made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.04.080 et
seq. of this Code. In the event that the City Council affirms a decision
of the Chief of Police to Assess a fee or the amount of a fee assessed,
payment of that fee shall be due and payable immediately following the
Council's decision.

Chapter 9.75
RESPONDING TO DISORDERLY GATHERINGS

Sections:

   9.75.010   Statement of Purpose and Intent

   9.75.020   Definitions

   9.75.030   Duty to Maintain Public Peace

   9.75.040   Cost of Police and Other Public Safety Service Personnel
Response

   9.75.050   Billing of Public Safety Expenses

   9.75.060   Appeal Process

   9.75.070   Recovery of Public Safety Expenses

9.75.010 Statement of Purpose and Intent.

   A.   The City Council finds that certain public and private
gatherings (or parties) that are excessively loud and/or disorderly and
disturb the public peace interfere with the public peace and safety when
they require repeated police responses, increase the cost of public
safety services and deter the Police Department and the City from
addressing other urgent public safety matters.

   B.   The City Council further finds that the additional procedures
and penalties established herein are needed to properly protect the
health, safety and general welfare of existing and future residents and
workers in the City.

9.75.020 Definitions.

For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:

   A.   “Person Responsible” - The person responsible for a loud and/or
disorderly gathering or party shall be deemed to be, in order of
priority:

      1.   The owner(s) of the premises where the loud and/or disorderly
gathering or party takes place, if the premises are owner-occupied
property;

      2.   The tenant(s) of the premises where the loud and/or
disorderly gathering or party takes place, if the premises are
tenant-occupied property;

      3.   The person(s) responsible for organizing the loud and/or
disorderly gathering or party. If the person is a minor, then the
parent(s) or guardian(s) of that minor will be jointly or severally
liable for reimbursement of the law enforcement expenses and any other
public safety expenses incurred.

   B.   “Loud and/or Disorderly Gathering or Party” - A loud and/or
disorderly activity attended by a group of persons on public or private
property which disturbs the peace or quiet of any neighborhood or which
causes discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable person of normal
sensitivity residing in the area.

   C.   “Special Security Assignment” - The assignment of police
officers and other public safety service (law enforcement) personnel
during a second or subsequent call to a location after providing a
warning that the loud and/or disorderly gathering or party violates the
law.

9.75.030 Duty to Maintain Public Peace.

Each person who sponsors a gathering or party, or who allows his or her
property to be utilized for a gathering or party, shall maintain such in
a quiet or orderly fashion so as to protect the public peace. Violation
of this duty constitutes a public nuisance in accordance with Chapter
8.25 of this Code.

9.75.040 Cost of Police and Other Public Safety Service Personnel
Response.

When a loud and/or disorderly gathering or party occurs, the person or
persons responsible will be held jointly and severally liable for
payment of the public safety service expenses for Special Security
Assignment(s).

9.75.050 Billing of Public Safety Expenses.

For the purposes of this Chapter, the City’s Finance Department shall
cause the person responsible for a loud and/or disorderly gathering or
party to be billed the actual cost for the police services provided in
responding to the disturbance and any other City and/or public safety
expenses incurred (these costs shall include, but shall not be limited
to, damages to City property and/or injuries to City personnel, and City
administrative costs). The Police Department shall accumulate the costs
of all services provided in responding to the disturbance and forward
same to the Finance Department within fifteen (15) days of the
disturbance for billing. Such bills shall be due and payable by the
person who sponsored the gathering or party within thirty (30) days
after the billing date.

9.75.060 Appeal Process.

Any person receiving a cost recovery fee bill for public safety services
pursuant to this Chapter may, within fifteen (15) days after the billing
date, file with the City Clerk a written request appealing the
imposition of such charges. Any billing sent pursuant to this Chapter
shall inform the billed party of the right to appeal said billing. All
appeals shall be made in writing, shall state the grounds for such
appeal, shall specify the factual basis for the appeal and shall contain
a signature verifying the truth of all matters asserted. Any appeal
regarding such billing shall be heard by the City Manager, or by his or
her designee, as the hearing officer. Notice of the hearing shall be
sent by certified or registered mail to the appellant (unless such mail
is refused or unclaimed, then the City shall send the mail via first
class postage prepaid mail and such mailing shall be deemed actual
service). Within ten (10) days after the hearing, the hearing officer
shall give written notice of the decision of the hearing officer. If the
appeal is denied in part or in full, all amounts due to the City shall
be paid within thirty (30) days after notice of the decision of the
hearing officer is sent by certified or registered mail to the appellant
(unless such mail is refused or unclaimed, then the City shall send the
mail via first class postage prepaid mail and such mailing shall be
deemed actual service). The decision of the hearing officer may be
appealed to the City Council pursuant to the procedure set forth in
Section 8.25.090 of this Code. If such decision is not appealed, then
the decision is final.

9.75.070 Recovery of Public Safety Expenses.

All amounts due under this Chapter shall be a debt to the City by the
property owner and all persons responsible for the loud and/or
disorderly gathering or party and is payable pursuant to California
Government Code Sections 6151.5 et seq.

Chapter 9.80
NUISANCE VEHICLES - SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF NUISANCE VEHICLES

Sections:

   9.80.010   Statement of Purpose and Intent

   9.80.020   Definitions

   9.80.030   Abatement of Nuisance Vehicles by Seizure and Forfeiture

   9.80.040   Responsible Persons

   9.80.050   Right, Title and Interest in Nuisance Vehicles

   9.80.060   Authority for Seizure of Nuisance Vehicles

   9.80.070   Process for Seizure

   9.80.080   Post-Seizure Hearing

   9.80.090   Administrative Forfeiture Proceedings

   9.80.100   Exceptions to Forfeiture of Nuisance Vehicles

   9.80.110   Court Declaration of Forfeiture of Nuisance Vehicles

   9.80.120   Disposal of Nuisance Vehicles

   9.80.130   Recovery of Monetary Loss

9.80.010 Statement of Purpose and Intent.

   A.   The City Council has determined that illegal dumping and illegal
street racing are nuisance activities that endanger the public health
and safety. Vehicles used in these nuisance activities are themselves
nuisances to be abated through seizure and forfeiture as provided in
this Chapter.

   B.   The procedures presented in this Chapter for the seizure and
forfeiture of nuisance vehicles are expressly intended as a remedy to
abate these nuisances; to protect the City’s residents and the public
from harm to their health, safety and welfare; to avoid the destruction
and injury to lives and property; and to compensate the City for
economic damages incurred as a result of the occurrence of these
nuisance activities. Examples of such damages are the costs of cleaning
up illegal dump sites and diverting limited police and public works
resources to address these nuisance activities. Any deterrent effect is
deemed incidental to the remedial purpose of this Chapter.

   C.   The City Council has determined that people who use vehicles to
illegally dump waste matter or attempt to do so, or transport waste
matter for the purpose of illegally dumping it within the City, bring
decay and blight into City neighborhoods, create public health hazards
and invite more illegal dumping. Such blight, decay and unhealthful
conditions adversely affect the quality of life for the City’s
residents, lead to a reduction in the value of property and invite other
criminal activity. The City Council finds there is a need to provide for
the abatement of such nuisance vehicles.

   D.   The City Council has determined that people who use vehicles for
illegal street racing create an immediate threat to public safety.
Participation in street racing requires drivers and other participants
to use vehicles to blatantly violate motor vehicle laws. Such activity
has been known to cause serious injuries and deaths in several cities
throughout California and to imperil innocent residents and the public.
Such activity contributes to an increase in crime, particularly offenses
involving alcohol and controlled substances. The City Council finds
there is a need to provide for the abatement of such nuisance vehicles.

9.80.020 Definitions.

   A.   “Business Day” - any weekday other than a Saturday, Sunday or a
legal holiday which falls on a day other than a Saturday or Sunday.

   B.   “Claimant” - any person claiming an interest in a nuisance
vehicle subject to forfeiture under this Chapter, either by properly
requesting a post-seizure hearing as set forth in Section 9.80.080.D.,
or properly filing a claim opposing forfeiture as set forth in Section
9.80.090.D.

   C.   “Exhibition of Speed” - a willful act of showing off or
displaying a dangerous or imprudent speed in a vehicle on a highway
where the presence of another person is known to the driver or may be
reasonably anticipated by the driver. In order to constitute an
exhibition of speed under this Chapter, there must be at least two (2)
spectators present at the time of the offense.

   D.   “Highway” - a way or place of whatever nature, which is used or
can be used by the public for vehicular travel. It does not include a
facility which is specifically designed and legally maintained and
operated for the purposes of speed contests or exhibitions of speed or
specifically permitted for those purposes.

   E.   “Illegal Dumping” - the willful or intentional depositing,
dropping, dumping, placing or throwing of any waste matter onto that
portion of public or private property located within the City and which
is not expressly designated by the City for the purpose of disposal of
waste matter. “Illegal dumping” does not include the discarding of small
quantities of waste matter related to consumer goods only and which are
reasonably understood to be ordinarily carried on or about a person,
including but not limited to, beverage containers and closures,
packaging, wrappers, wastepaper, newspapers, magazines or other similar
waste matter that escapes or is allowed to escape from a container,
receptacle or package.

   F.   “Local Law Enforcement or Governmental Entities” - any city,
charter city, county, or city and county, or the respective departments
thereof, in this state.

   G.   “Nuisance” - shall have the same meaning as set forth in Civil
Code Section 3479.

   H.   “Owner” - the last registered owner, the last legal owner and
any then-existing lien holder of record as shown on the records of the
Department of Motor Vehicles or similar state or federal agency, for any
vehicle used for any of the nuisance activities subject to this Chapter.

   I.   “Speed Contest” - a contest or event where a vehicle is raced on
a highway against another vehicle or a clock or other timing device. In
order to constitute a speed contest under this Chapter, at least two (2)
vehicles or at least two (2) spectators must be present at the event. An
event where the time to cover a prescribed route of more than twenty
(20) miles is measured, but where the vehicles does not exceed the speed
limit is not a speed contest.

   J.   “Street Racing” - a speed contest or exhibition of speed as
those terms are defined in this Chapter.

   K.   “Vehicle” - a vehicle as that term is defined in California
Vehicle Code Section 670 and a motor vehicle as that term is defined in
California Vehicle Code Section 415.

   L.   “Waste Matter” - any form of tangible matter described by any of
the following categories:

      1.   All forms of garbage, refuse, rubbish, recyclable materials
and solid waste as those terms are defined in Title 8 of this Code;

      2.   Dirt, solid rock, decomposed rock, gravel, sand or other
aggregate material;

      3.   Abandoned or discarded furniture, or commercial or industrial
or agricultural machinery, apparatus, structure or container; sports or
athletic equipment; or any piece, portion or part thereof;

      4.   All forms of liquid waste not otherwise defined in or
otherwise deemed to fall within the purview of Title 8 of this Code or
Health and Safety Code Section 25117, including but not limited to, gray
water, black water, water-based or oil-based paints; chemical solutions;
non-potable water, except as specifically used for irrigation or
construction; non-potable water contaminated with any substance
rendering it unusable for irrigation or construction; oils, fuels, and
other petroleum distillates or by-products;

      5.   Hazardous waste as that term is defined in Title 8 of this
Code and in Health and Safety Code Section 25117;

      6.   Any form of biological waste not otherwise designated by this
Code or other applicable laws as hazardous waste, including but not
limited to bodily fluids, body parts, carcasses, and any associated
container, enclosure or wrapping material used to dispose of such
matter; and

      7.   Any physical substance used as an ingredient in any process,
now known or hereafter developed or devised, to manufacture any
controlled substance specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054,
11055, 11056, 11057, 11058 or their successor provisions or sections, or
which is a by-product or result of any such manufacturing process.

9.80.030 Abatement of Nuisance Vehicles by Seizure and Forfeiture.

   A.   Pursuant to the City’s authority and power under Article IV of
the City’s Charter to make and enforce all laws and regulations
regarding municipal affairs and pursuant to Government Code Section
38771, the City Council declares that:

      1.   Any vehicle used to illegally dump waste matter or attempt to
do so in violation of this Code or other applicable state law is a
nuisance;

      2.   Any vehicle used to transport waste matter for the purpose of
illegal dumping in violation of this Code of other applicable state law
is a nuisance;

      3.   Any vehicle used to acquire, attempt to acquire, sell or
attempt to sell any controlled substance in violation of applicable
state or other law is a nuisance, subject to the limitation set forth at
Section 9.80.030.E.; and

      4.   Any vehicle used for street racing is a nuisance.

   B.   All such nuisance vehicles shall be abated through seizure and
forfeiture procedures as provide in this Chapter, subject to the
forfeiture exceptions set forth at Section 9.80.100.

   C.   A criminal conviction shall not be required as a prerequisite to
any forfeiture proceeding brought pursuant to the authority of this
Chapter, except as provided in Section 9.80.030.E.

   D.   Physical seizure of a nuisance vehicle subject to this Chapter
shall not be required as a prerequisite to institution of forfeiture
proceedings.

   E.   Section 9.80.030.A.3. shall apply only to those persons who have
been convicted of any drug-related offense within five (5) years prior
to the date of the commission of the act giving rise to the nuisance
under this Chapter.

9.80.040 Responsible Persons.

Any person who owns, leases, borrows, possesses, maintains or uses any
vehicle for any of the purposes or acts set forth in this Chapter is
responsible for creating a public nuisance.

9.80.050 Right, Title and Interest in Nuisance Vehicles.

All right, title and interest in any nuisance vehicle described in
Section 9.80.030 shall vest in the City upon commission of the act
giving rise to the nuisance under this Chapter, except for those
vehicles subject to the forfeiture exceptions set forth at Section
9.80.100.

9.80.060 Authority for Seizure of Nuisance Vehicles.

Nuisance vehicles subject to forfeiture under this Chapter may be seized
by any peace officer upon process issued by any court having
jurisdiction of the vehicle. Seizure without process may be made if any
of the following situations exist:

   A.   The seizure is incidental to an arrest or a search under a
search warrant.

   B.   There is probable cause to believe that the vehicle was used in
violation of this Chapter based upon a reasonable investigation of the
facts.

9.80.070 Process for Seizure.

   A.   Investigation of Vehicle Ownership Interests. The Police
Department shall make a prompt investigation as to any potential
claimant to a nuisance vehicle that is subject to this Chapter whose
right, title, interest or lien is of record in the Department of Motor
Vehicles of this state or any other state or appropriate federal agency.

   B.   Notice of Seizure.

      1.   At the time a nuisance vehicle is seized pursuant to this
Chapter by the Police Department, the seizing officer shall provide a
notice of seizure to the person from whose possession the vehicle was
seized.

      2.   If the Police Department’s investigation reveals any
potential claimants other than the person from whom the nuisance was
seized, and whose right, title, interest or lien existed prior to the
date of the commission of the act giving rise to the nuisance, then the
Police Department shall send a notice of seizure to each such claimant
within three (3) business days following the date the vehicle was
seized. Such notice shall be served by regular mail at the claimant’s
address appearing on the records of the applicable state’s Department of
Motor Vehicles or appropriate federal agency. The Police Department
shall forward a copy of each such notice to the City Attorney.

      3.   The notice of seizure shall include the following:

         (a)   A description of the seized vehicle, including its make,
model, license plate number and Vehicle Identification Number (VIN);

         (b)   The location, authority and reason for the vehicle’s
seizure by the Police Department;

         (c)   A statement describing the opportunity for a post-seizure
hearing as specified in Section 9.80.080 and the requirements and time
limits for requesting such a hearing; and

         (d)   A statement that a report of the seizure investigation
shall be sent to the City Attorney for review for institution of
forfeiture proceedings.

   C.   Receipts.

      1.   Receipts for nuisance vehicles seized pursuant to this
Chapter shall be delivered to any person from whose possession such
vehicle was seized. Where such a possessor is arrested for a public
offense incidental to the vehicle’s seizure, then the receipt shall be
issued in accordance with Penal Code Section 1412. For the purposes of
this Chapter, neither Penal Code Section 1412 nor any provision of this
Chapter shall be construed as precluding the delivery of a completed
Vehicle Report (CHP 180 Form) as the receipt required by this Section.

      2.   There shall be a presumption affecting the burden of proof
that a person to whom a receipt was issued is an owner of the seized
vehicle. This presumption may be rebutted at the trial as specified in
Section 9.80.100.A.2.

   D.   Towing and Storage. The Police Department shall make
arrangements for the towing of a seized vehicle and its storage at a
City facility designated by the Public Works Director or that person’s
designated agent.

   E.   Seized Vehicles as Evidence. A nuisance vehicle seized pursuant
to this Chapter, where appropriate, may be held for evidence in any
proceeding brought by the City Attorney or District Attorney.

   F.   No Seizure; Notice of Potential Claimant. In those instances
where a nuisance vehicle subject to this Chapter is identified but not
seized and the Police Department’s investigation reveals any potential
claimants whose right, title, interest or lien existed prior to the date
of the commission of the act giving rise to the nuisance, then the
Police Department shall provide the name, address and other identifying
information, if any, of each potential claimant to the City Attorney.

9.80.080 Post-Seizure Hearing.

   A.   Opportunity for Hearing. The Police Department shall provide any
potential claimants, discovered as a result of its investigation of
vehicle ownership interests, with the opportunity for a post-seizure
hearing to determine the validity of the seizure, that is, whether there
was probable cause to believe the vehicle was used in violation of this
Chapter.

   B.   Manner of Hearing. The Police Department shall have the
authority, but not the obligation, to conduct this hearing in the same
manner as a vehicle post-storage hearing conducted pursuant to
California Vehicle Code Section 22852.

   C.   Hearing Officer. The Police Department may authorize its own
officer or employee to act as a hearing officer and conduct the
post-seizure hearing, provided that the officer so chosen is not the
same person who directed or participated in the seizure of the nuisance
vehicle.

   D.   Request for Hearing. Any claimant who desires a post-seizure
hearing must make a request to the Police Department in person, or in
writing, or by telephone as specified in the notice of seizure. The
request must be made within ten (10) business days of the date of the
notice of seizure. Failure to make a request within the time allowed
shall constitute the claimant’s waiver of any right to a post-seizure
hearing and satisfies the requirement for such a hearing.

   E.   Time for Hearing. The post-seizure hearing shall be conducted
within five (5) business days of the date of the first request received
by the Police Department from any claimant.

   F.   Multiple Claimants; Notice of Hearing.

      1.   If there are multiple claimants, then upon receipt of the
first request for a post-seizure hearing, the Police Department shall
send written notice, by regular mail, of the date, time and location of
the post-seizure hearing to the remaining claimants.

      2.   The Police Department shall not be required to conduct
multiple post-seizure hearings for each seized nuisance vehicle.

      3.   Claimants who cannot attend the post-seizure hearing as
scheduled and wish to be heard, may send a written statement for the
hearing officer’s consideration to the Police Department at the address
specified in the notice of seizure.

   G.   Findings of Hearing Officer.

      1.   If the hearing officer determines that no probable cause
existed for the seizure, the vehicle shall be released as soon as
practicable to the appropriate claimant without imposing any towing
and/or storage charges. The City Attorney and each claimant shall be
notified of the release.

      2.   If the hearing officer determines that probable cause for the
seizure existed and that the seized vehicle may be subject to the
forfeiture exceptions set forth in Section 9.80.100, the hearing officer
shall confer with the City Attorney as soon as possible. Upon the
determination of the City Attorney that a forfeiture exception applies,
the vehicle shall be released as soon as practicable to the appropriate
claimant without imposing any towing and/or storage charges. The City
Attorney and each claimant shall be notified of the release.

      3.   If the hearing officer determines that probable cause existed
for the seizure, then forfeiture proceedings against the vehicle will
continue as provided in Section 9.80.090.

9.80.090 Administrative Forfeiture Proceedings.

   A.   Application. The provisions of this Section shall apply only to
nuisance vehicles actually seized under the authority of this Chapter.

   B.   Factual Determination. The City Attorney shall determine from
the police reports and other relevant information, if any, whether the
factual circumstances surrounding the seizure warrant forfeiture of the
seized vehicle.

   C.   Notice of Administrative Proceedings.

      1.   In those instances where forfeiture is warranted, the City
Attorney shall cause a notice of administrative proceedings to be sent
by certified mail, return receipt requested, to each potential claimant
identified by the Police Department. Personal service shall not be
required. This notice shall be accompanied by a claim form.

      2.   The notice of administrative proceedings shall include the
following:

         (a)   The vehicle and seizure information presented in the
notice of seizure;

         (b)   Notice that administrative forfeiture proceedings have
begun and can be opposed only by filing a claim opposing forfeiture, the
time limits for filing the claim and instructions for filing and serving
the claim; and

         (c)   Notice that failure to properly file and serve the claim
will result in forfeiture of the vehicle.

      3.   The City Attorney shall serve the notice of administrative
proceeding as soon as practicable, but in any event, within thirty (30)
business days of the date the last police report for the seizure is
received by the City Attorney’s office.

      4.   If a claimant entitled to notice resides out of state and has
refused or failed to accept certified mail, then service may be made by
regular mail.

      5.   If a claimant entitled to notice cannot be located or service
as required by this Section cannot otherwise be effected, then service
may be made by publication in a local newspaper of general circulation.
Such service shall be deemed sufficient when it is accomplished pursuant
to Government Code Section 6063 or its successor provisions or section.

      6.   The City attorney shall send written notice to the Department
of Motor Vehicles, Registration Operations Division, Involuntary
Transfer Section, requesting that a Vehicle License and Title stop be
placed against the DMV record of the seized nuisance vehicle.

   D.   Claim Opposing Forfeiture.

      1.   A claimant seeking to oppose the administrative forfeiture of
a seized nuisance vehicle must file a claim, using the Claim Opposing
Forfeiture form, within ten (10) business days of the date of the notice
of administrative proceedings.

      2.   The claim must be verified in accordance with Section 446 of
the Code of Civil Procedure or its successor provision or section.

      3.   The claim must be filed with the Civil Division, Court Clerk
of the San Bernardino County Superior Court, Victorville Division.

      4.   The claimant must serve a court-conformed copy of the claim
upon the City Attorney within ten (10) business days of the date on
which it was filed.

      5.   Upon the proper filing and service of a Claim Opposing
Forfeiture form, the forfeiture proceeding will continue as provided in
Section 9.80.100.

   E.   Failure to File Claim; Order of Forfeiture.

      1.   The failure of a claimant to properly file and serve a claim
opposing forfeiture shall result in the waiver of the claimant’s
interest in the seized nuisance vehicle.

      2.   The City Attorney may, pursuant to this Section, declare and
order the forfeiture of a seized nuisance vehicle in those cases where
no claim has been properly filed and served.

   F.   City Attorney Declaration of Forfeiture.

      1.   The City Attorney shall prepare a written declaration of
forfeiture of the seized nuisance vehicle and dispose of it in
accordance with Section 9.80.110. The declaration of forfeiture signed
by the City Attorney under this Section shall be deemed to provide good
and sufficient legal title to the vehicle so forfeited.

      2.   The City Attorney shall serve, by regular mail, a copy of the
declaration to each claimant who received a notice of administrative
proceedings.

9.80.100 Exceptions to Forfeiture of Nuisance Vehicles.

   A.   Seized Vehicles.

      1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Chapter, the Police
Department shall return a seized vehicle, and that vehicle shall not be
subject to forfeiture, upon the determination of any of the following
circumstances:

         (a)   The vehicle was actually stolen, provided that:

            (1)   The theft was reported to a law enforcement agency
prior to the reporting of the vehicle’s use in violation of this Chapter
to the Police Department or other City department;

            (2)   The identity of the registered owner can be reasonably
ascertained; and

            (3)   The registered owner redeems the vehicle within thirty
(30) days of the seizure.

         (b)   The vehicle is owned by a bona fide rental car agency,
provided that the vehicle’s use in violation of this Chapter was made
without the agency’s knowledge and consent.

         (c)   The vehicle is owned by the employer of the person who
used it in violation of this Chapter, provided that:

            (1)   The use was made without the employer’s knowledge and
consent;

            (2)   The use did not provide a direct benefit to the
employer’s business; and

            (3)   The use did not further or advance the employer’s
business interests in any way, and the use was of such nature that had
the employer known, the use would have resulted in termination or
substantial discipline.

         (d)   The vehicle is legally owned as community property,
provided that:

            (1)   The vehicle is the sole vehicle available to the
immediate family of the driver or possessor from whom the vehicle was
seized that may be operated with a Class C driver’s license;

            (2)   The community property interest owner, other than the
driver or possessor from whom the vehicle was seized, enters into a
written, stipulated vehicle release agreement pursuant to Section
9.80.100.B. as consideration for the non-forfeiture of the vehicle;

            (3)   The community property interest owner submits written
proof of that interest, presents his or her valid driver’s license or a
valid driver’s license for an authorized driver, presents proof of valid
registration and insurance and pays all towing and storage fees or
reimburses the City for any and all towing and/or storage fees incurred;
and

            (4)   The vehicle was not used in a street race that
directly resulted in the death or serous injury of any person.

   B.   Stipulated Vehicle Release Agreement.

      1.   The City Attorney shall prepare the stipulated vehicle
release agreement. The agreement, at minimum, shall provide for the
following:

         (a)   Consent of the community property interest owner signing
the agreement to the automatic future seizure and forfeiture of, and
transfer of title to the City, of the vehicle identified in the
agreement upon any subsequent use of the vehicle in violation of this
Chapter.

         (b)   Seizure pursuant to this Section shall be made with a
seizure order issued by the Superior Court. The supporting affidavit or
declaration shall include a copy of the agreement and a certified copy
of this Chapter; and

         (c)   Any other provision deemed appropriate in the sole
discretion of the City Attorney.

      2.   The City Attorney shall send written notice to the Department
of Motor Vehicles, Registration Operations Division, Involuntary
Transfer Section within ten (10) business days of the date the vehicle
is seized.

   C.   Vehicles that have not been Seized. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this Chapter, vehicles subject to seizure and forfeiture
that have not been seized, and which otherwise meet the criteria set
forth in Section 9.80.100.A., shall not be the subject of any seizure
order, petition for forfeiture or forfeiture proceeding.

9.80.110 Court Declaration of Forfeiture of Nuisance Vehicles.

   A.   Upon proof that the vehicle was used for any of the purposes set
forth in Section 9.80.030, the court shall declare the vehicle a
nuisance and order that it be forfeited to the City for disposal as set
forth in Section 9.80.120.

   B.   If the vehicle which has been declared a nuisance and ordered
forfeited to the City is not in the City’s possession, the court shall
issue a seizure order for the vehicle forthwith.

9.80.120 Disposal of Nuisance Vehicles.

   A.   In all cases were vehicles seized pursuant to this Chapter are
forfeited to the City, the vehicles shall be sold or destroyed. The
proceeds of sale shall be distributed and appropriated as follows:

      1.   To the City treasury to reimburse costs paid or incurred by
the City Attorney or associated with proceedings instituted under this
Chapter. These costs shall include, without limitation, the towing,
storage and release, sale, (including any repairs, transportation or
storage necessary to facilitate the sale, of any nuisance vehicle seized
and forfeited under this Chapter), auction commissions, the costs for
publication and mailing of all required notices, and, where necessary,
the costs for translation of required notices and pleadings into a
foreign language by a court-certified interpreter. Personnel costs shall
not be included.

         (a)   To the bona fide or innocent purchaser, conditional
vendor, mortgagee or lien holder of the vehicle, if any, up to the
amount of his or her interest in the vehicle only, when the court or
City Attorney declaring the forfeiture orders a distribution to that
person.

      2.   Any remaining funds shall be allocated by the City as
follows:

         (a)   For all cases arising under this Chapter:

            (1)   Fifty percent (50%) to the City Public Works
Department, to be maintained by the City in a separate fund for illegal
dumping abatement;

            (2)   Fifty percent (50%) to local law enforcement or
governmental entities that participated in the seizure distributed so as
to reflect the proportionate contribution to each agency, with
distribution to the Police Department to be maintained in a separate
fund for local nuisance vehicle abatement.

      3.   In the event the condition of the vehicle is such that it is
not suitable for sale at a public auction or the cost of sale exceeds
its fair market value, it may be sold for scrap.

      4.   A vehicle may be destroyed only if it has been modified in
ways that make its sale impracticable or the condition of the vehicle
warrants destruction, and there are no lien holders or claimants who did
not know that the vehicle was used in violation of this Chapter.

      5.   A forfeited vehicle shall not be sold to the person who used
or drove the vehicle during the commission of the act giving rise to the
nuisance under this Chapter.

      6.   In lieu of forfeiture, a settlement may be negotiated, in
which case the proceeds of the settlement shall be distributed in the
same manner as a sale.

      7.   All the funds distributed to the City Public Works Department
or to local law enforcement or governmental entities pursuant to this
Section shall not supplant any funds that would, in the absence of this
Section, be made available to support their abatement efforts,
procedures or programs.

      8.   For budgeting purposes, funds attributable to this Chapter
shall not be considered anticipated revenue into the general fund.

9.80.130 Recovery of Monetary Loss.

Nothing in this Chapter shall preclude an owner of a nuisance vehicle
subject to seizure and forfeiture who suffers a monetary loss from the
forfeiture of a vehicle under this Chapter from recovering the amount of
the actual monetary loss from the person who committed the act giving
rise to the nuisance that resulted in the forfeiture.

Chapter 9.85
[REPEALED]

Chapter 9.90
CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES

Sections:

   9.90.010   Definitions

   9.90.015   Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages

   9.90.020   Exceptions

   9.90.025   Alcoholic Beverage Containers

   9.90.030   Posting Signs

9.90.010 Definitions.

   A.   “Alcoholic Beverage” means and includes alcohol, spirits,
liquor, wine, beer and every liquid or solid containing alcohol,
spirits, wine or beer, and which is fit for beverage purposes, either
alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances.

   B.   “Public Place” means any public street, right-of-way, alley,
park and such other public area(s) as the City Council may, from
time-to-time, designate by resolution; any publicly used exterior
grounds of a service station or public parking lot; or any City owned
building or ground. The City Council shall have the right to make
exceptions in designated places for specific events.

9.90.015 Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages.

Every person who consumes an alcoholic beverage on any public street,
alley, highway or other public place is guilty of a misdemeanor. This
Section shall not be deemed to prescribe any act which is positively
permitted, prohibited or preempted by any law of the State of
California.

9.90.020 Exceptions.

   A.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not be construed to
prohibit persons from engaging in organized activities permitted by the
City, nor to prohibit the City from conducting such activities.

   B.   Pursuant to written approval of the City Manager and his/her
appointed representative, alcoholic beverages may be sold and served in
City facilities by persons or groups renting or using said facilities
with the permission of the City for a specific occasion, subject to the
following conditions:

      1.   Written application for each such occasion shall be made and
submitted to the City in a form approved by the City Manager.

      2.   Each applicant must comply with all applicable rules and
regulations of the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control
(ABC) for each occasion.

      3.   Each open air event where alcoholic beverages are to be
allowed must be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police.

      4.   Each applicant shall furnish such information as may
reasonably be required by the City Manager, in relation to the proposed
occasion or event.

      5.   Each applicant will be required to obtain a one (1) day
Liquor Liability Insurance Policy with combined single limits of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for bodily injury and property damage,
for each occasion, naming the City as additional named insured,
provided, however, that the City Manager may increase or decrease the
required amount of coverage as warranted by individual circumstances.
The Certificate of Insurance must be on file with the City Manager no
later than seventy-two (72) hours before the start of each event or
occasion.

   C.   The terms of this Chapter shall not apply to Mavericks Stadium,
which is operated under separate rules, regulations and ABC permits.

9.90.025 Alcoholic Beverage Containers.

   A.   No person having in his or her possession any bottle, can or
other receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage which has been opened
and/or has had its seal broken and/or the contents have been partially
removed, shall enter, be or remain on the premises, adjacent parking
area, or any retail package off-sale alcoholic beverage licensee
licensed pursuant to California Business & Professions Code Sections
23000 et seq., or any public sidewalk or right-of-way immediately
adjacent to the licensed and posted premises.

   B.   The provisions of this Section shall only apply to locations
where the signs are posted pursuant to Section 9.90.030.A.

9.90.030 Posting Signs.

   A.   Every person owning or operating a retail package off-sale
alcoholic beverage establishment within the City, license pursuant to
California Business & Professions Code Sections 23000 et seq., shall
post and maintain in good repair, in a conspicuous place at each
entrance to the licensed premises and to the parking lot immediately
adjacent thereto, a sign that gives notice substantially as follows:

      “Possession of Open Container(s) or Consumption of Alcoholic
Beverages on These Premises and the Adjacent Public Sidewalk and
Right-of-Way is Prohibited. AMC Chapter 9.90”

   B.   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to the premises
of adjacent parking area(s) of any retail package off-sale alcoholic
beverage licensee, in which event the provisions of Section 9.90.025
shall apply.

[Ord. No. 351, 10/27/98.]

Chapter 9.95
[REPEALED]

Chapter 9.100
PSYCHOACTIVE BATH SALTS, PSYCHOACTIVE HERBAL INCENSE AND OTHER SYNTHETIC
DRUGS

Sections:

   9.100.010   Purpose and Intent

   9.100.020   Definitions

   9.100.030   Provision, Sale and/or Distribution of Synthetic Drugs
Prohibited

   9.100.040   Provision, Sale and/or Distribution of Substances Claimed
or Represented to be Synthetic Drugs Prohibited

   9.100.050   Possession of Synthetic Drugs Prohibited

   9.100.060   Public Nuisance

   9.100.070   Summary Abatement

   9.100.080   Revocation of Business License

   9.100.090   Penalties

   9.100.100   Seizure of Evidence

   9.100.110   Exclusions

   9.100.120   Severability

9.100.010   Purpose and Intent.

Recreational use of Psychoactive Bath Salts, Psychoactive Herbal Incense
and similar products commonly known as “Synthetic Drugs” has been
documented to cause hallucinations, agitation, psychosis, aggression,
suicidal and homicidal ideations, cannibalism and death. While State and
Federal laws and regulations prohibit some Synthetic Drugs, the makers
of these drugs continually alter the composition of the compounds in
their products so as to escape the purview of these laws and
regulations. The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to provide the
City with reasonable measures to address the dangers to the community
posed by Synthetic Drugs that are not regulated by State or Federal Law.

[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]

9.100.020   Definitions.

   A.   “Business” shall have the same meaning as the term is defined in
Section 5.04.010.A. of this Municipal Code.

   B.   “Consume,” “consuming” or “consumption” shall mean to ingest,
inhale, inject, smoke or snort (insufflate).

   C.    “Distribute”, “distributing” or “distribution” shall mean to
furnish, give away, exchange, transfer, deliver or supply, whether for
monetary gain or not.

   D.   “Person” shall include any natural person, business, firm,
company, corporation, public corporation, club, trust, partnership,
association and/or similar organization.

   E.   “Possess,” “possessing” or “possession” shall mean to have for
consumption, distribution or sale in one's actual or constructive
custody or control, or under one's authority or power, whether such
custody, control, authority and/or power be exercised solely or jointly
with others.

   F.   “Provide,” “providing” or “provision” shall mean offering to
distribute or sell a product or substance to any person.

   G.   “Psychoactive Bath Salts” shall mean any crystalline or powder
product that contains a synthetic chemical compound that, when consumed,
elicits psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects. The term
“Psychoactive Bath Salts” includes without limitation:

      1.   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant
effects and contain any of the following intoxicating chemical
compounds:

         (a)   Cathinone (2-amino-1-phenyl-1-propanone),
4-methylmethcathinone (2-methylamino-1-(4-methylphenyl)propan-1-one),
4-methoxymethcathinone (1-(4-methoxyphenyl)-2-(methylamino)propan-1
-one), MDPV (methylenedioxypyrovalerone), MDMA
(3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine), methylone
(3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylcathinone), methcathinone
(2-(methylamino)-1-phenyl-propan-1-one), flephedrone
(4-fluoromethcathinone), 3-FMC (3-fluoromethcathinone), ethcathinone
(2-ethylamino-1-phenyl-propan-1-one), butylone
(-keto-N-methylbenzodioxolylbutanamine), a-PPP
(-pyrrolidinopropiophenone), MPPP (4'-methyl--pyrrolidinopropiophenone),
MDPPP (3',4'-methylenedioxy--pyrrolidinopropiophenone), -PVP
(1-phenyl-2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)-1-pentanone) or naphyrone
(1-naphthalen-2-yl-2-pyrrolidin-1-ylpentan-1-one);

         (b)   Any derivative of the above listed intoxicating chemical
compounds;

         (c)   Any synthetic substance and its isomers with a chemical
structure similar to the above listed compounds;

         (d)   Any chemical alteration of the above listed intoxicating
chemical compounds; or

         (e)   Any other substantially similar chemical structure or
compound; and

      2.   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant
effects and are marketed under any of the following trade names: Bliss,
Blizzard, Blue Silk, Bonzai Grow, Charge Plus, Charlie, Cloud Nine,
Euphoria, Hurricane, Ivory Snow, Ivory Wave, Lunar Wave, Ocean, Ocean
Burst, Pixie Dust, Posh, Pure Ivory, Purple Wave, Red Dove, Scarface,
Snow Leopard, Stardust, Vanilla Sky, White Dove, White Night and White
Lightning.

   The term “Psychoactive Bath Salts” shall not include any product,
substance, material, compound, mixture or preparation that is
specifically excepted by the California Uniform Controlled Substances
Act (“UCSA”) (Health and Safety Code §§ 11000 et seq.), listed in one of
the UCSA's schedules of controlled substances (Health and Safety Code §§
11053-11058), regulated by one of the UCSA's Synthetic Drug Laws (Health
and Safety Code §§ 11357.5, 11375.5 and 11401), regulated by the Federal
Controlled Substances Act (the “CSA”) (21 U.S.C. §§ 81 et seq.) or
approved by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”).

   H.   “Psychoactive Herbal Incense” shall mean any organic product
consisting of plant material that contains a synthetic stimulant
compound that, when consumed, elicits psychoactive or psychotropic
euphoric effects. The term “Psychoactive Herbal Incense” includes
without limitation:

      1.   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric
effects and contain any of the following intoxicating chemical
compounds:

         (a)   Cannabicyclohexanol (2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-
5-(2-methylnonan-2-yl)phenol), JWH-018
(naphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl)methanone), JWH-073
(naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3-yl)methanone), JWH-200
((1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)-naphthalen-1-ylmethanone), HU-210
((6aR,10aR)- 9-(Hydroxymethyl)- 6,6-dimethyl-
3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen- 1-ol), CP
47,497 (2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]- 5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol)
CP 47,497 (2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol)
or AM-2201
(1-[(5-fluoropentyl)-1H-indol-3-yl]-(naphthalen-1-yl)methanone);

         (b)   Any derivative of the above listed intoxicating chemical
compounds;

         (c)   Any synthetic substance and its isomers with a chemical
structure similar to the above listed intoxicating chemical compounds;

         (d)   Any chemical alteration of the above listed intoxicating
chemical compounds; or

         (e)   Any other substantially similar chemical structure or
compound; and

      2.   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric
effects and are marketed under any of the following trade names: K2, K3,
Spice, Genie, Smoke, Potpourri, Buzz, Spice 99, Voodoo, Pulse, Hush,
Mystery, Earthquake, Black Mamba, Stinger, Ocean Blue, Stinger,
Serenity, Fake Weed and Black Mamba.

   The term “Psychoactive Herbal Incense” shall not include any product,
substance, material, compound, mixture, or preparation that is
specifically excepted by the UCSA (Health and Safety Code §§ 11000 et
seq.), listed in one of the UCSA's schedules of controlled substances
(Health and Safety Code §§ 11053-11058), regulated by one of the USCA's
Synthetic Drug Laws (Health and Safety Code §§ 11357.5,11375.5 and
11401), regulated by the CSA (21 U.S.C. §§ 81 et seq.) or approved by
the FDA.

   J.   “Psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects” shall mean
affecting the central nervous system or brain function to change
perception, mood, consciousness, cognition and/or behavior in ways that
are similar to the effects of cocaine, methylphenidate or amphetamines.

   K.   “Psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric effects” shall mean
affecting the central nervous system or brain function to change
perception, mood, consciousness, cognition and/or behavior in ways that
are similar to the effects of cannabis.

   L.   “Sell,” “selling” or “sale” shall mean to furnish, exchange,
transfer, deliver or supply for monetary gain.

   M.   “Synthetic Drug” shall include Psychoactive Bath Salts and
Psychoactive Herbal Incense, as those terms are defined hereinabove.

[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]

9.100.030   Provision, Sale and/or Distribution of Synthetic Drugs
Prohibited.

   A.   It is unlawful for any person to provide, distribute or sell any
Synthetic Drug within the City of Adelanto.

   B.   Merely disclaiming a Synthetic Drug as “not safe for human
consumption” will not avoid the application of this Section.

[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]

9.100.040   Provision, Sale and/or Distribution of Substances Claimed or
Represented to be Synthetic Drugs Prohibited.

   A.   It is unlawful for any person to claim or represent that a
product that person is providing, distributing or selling is a Synthetic
Drug within the City of Adelanto.

   B.   To determine if a person is claiming or representing that a
product is a Synthetic Drug, the enforcing officer may consider any of
the following evidentiary factors:

      1.   The product is not suitable for its marketed use (such as a
crystalline or powder product being marketed as “glass cleaner”);

      2.   The business providing, distributing or selling the product
does not typically provide, distribute or sell products that are used
for that product's marketed use (such as a liquor store selling “plant
food”);

      3.   The product contains a warning label that is not typically
present on products that are used for that product's marketed use (such
as “not for human consumption,” “not for purchase by minors,” or “does
not contain chemicals banned by Section 11357.5”);

      4.   The product is significantly more expensive than products
that are used for that product's marketed use (such as a half of a gram
of a substance marketed as “glass cleaner” costing $50.00);

      5.   The product resembles an illicit street drug (such as
cocaine, methamphetamine or marijuana); or

      6.   The product's name or packaging uses images or slang
referencing an illicit street drug (such as “Eight Ballz” or “Green
Buddha”).

   C.   Merely disclaiming a substance claimed or represented to be a
Synthetic Drug as “not safe for human consumption” will not avoid the
application of this Section.

[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]

9.100.050   Possession of Synthetic Drugs Prohibited.

It is unlawful for any person to possess any Synthetic Drug within the
City of Adelanto.

[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]

9.100.060   Public Nuisance.

   A.   It is a public nuisance for any person to provide, distribute or
sell any Synthetic Drug within the City of Adelanto.

   B.   It is a public nuisance for any person to allow the provision,
distribution or sale of any Synthetic Drug on property owned, controlled
or managed by such person within the City of Adelanto.

   C.   It is a public nuisance for any person to provide, distribute or
sell any substance claimed or represented to be a Synthetic Drug within
the City of Adelanto.

   D.   It is a public nuisance for any person to allow the provision,
distribution or sale of any substance claimed or represented to be a
Synthetic Drug on property owned, controlled or managed by such person
within the City of Adelanto.

   E.   To determine if a person is claiming or representing that a
substance or product is a Synthetic Drug, the enforcing officer may
consider any of the evidentiary factors set forth in Section
9.100.040.B. of this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]

9.100.070   Summary Abatement.

Because the use of Synthetic Drugs has been documented to cause
hallucinations, agitation, psychosis, aggression, suicidal and homicidal
ideations, cannibalism and death, any violation of this Chapter presents
a grave and imminent danger not only to the person consuming the
Synthetic Drug, but also to the public at large. If the Code Enforcement
Officer, based on the facts then known, determines that a violation of
this Chapter presents an imminent danger or hazard or is imminently
injurious to the public health or safety, then that violation is
punishable by the summary abatement procedures set forth Section
1.20.070 of this Code.

[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]

9.100.080   Revocation of Business License.

No person holding a validly issued City business license and owning or
operating a business in the City may use that business to provide,
distribute or sell any Synthetic Drug or any substance claimed or
represented to be a Synthetic Drug. A violation of this Section by the
holder of a validly issued City business license, shall constitute
grounds for modification, suspension and/or revocation of said license
in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 5.04 of this
Municipal Code.

[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]

9.100.090   Penalties.

   A.   Misdemeanor Violation. Failure to comply with any of the
requirements of this Chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment
in the City or County jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months or
by fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both,
provided that where the City Attorney determines that such action would
be in the interest of justice, he/she may specify in the accusatory
pleading that the offense shall be an infraction.

   B.   Infraction Violation. Where the City Attorney determines that,
in the interest of justice, a violation of this Chapter is an
infraction, such infraction is punishable by a fine not exceeding one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first violation, a fine not exceeding
two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second violation of the same
provision within one (1) year, and a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each additional infraction violation of the same
provision within one (1) year. An infraction is not punishable by
imprisonment. A person charged with an infraction shall not be entitled
to a trial by jury and shall not be entitled to have the public defender
or other counsel appointed at public expense to represent him/her,
unless he/she is arrested and not released on his/her written promise to
appear, his/her own recognizance or a deposit of bail. However, any
person who has previously been convicted two (2) or more times during
any twelve (12) month period for any violation of this Chapter for a
crime made punishable as an infraction shall be charged with a
misdemeanor upon the third violation.

   C.   Separate Offense. Each person committing, causing or maintaining
a violation of this Chapter or failing to comply with the requirements
set forth herein shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each
and every day during any portion of which any violation of any provision
of this Chapter is committed, continued, maintained or permitted by such
person and shall be punishable accordingly.

   D.   Civil Remedies Available; Remedies Cumulative. In addition to
the penalties provided in this Section, any condition caused or
permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter
shall constitute a public nuisance and may be abated by the City by
civil process by means of a restraining order, preliminary or permanent
injunction or in any manner provided by law for the abatement of such
nuisance. All remedies herein are cumulative and non-exclusive.

   E.   Administrative Citation. In lieu of issuing a criminal citation,
the City may issue an administrative citation pursuant to Section
1.20.060 of this Municipal Code, to any person responsible for
committing, causing or maintaining a violation of this Chapter. Nothing
in this Section shall preclude the City from also issuing a citation
upon the occurrence of the same offense on a separate day.

   F.   Administrative Fine. Any person issued an administrative
citation pursuant to this Chapter shall for each separate violation be
subject to: (1) an administrative fine in an amount not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first citation; (2) an administrative
fine in an amount not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for
a second citation issued for the same offense within a twelve (12) month
period of the date of the first offense; and (3) a fine in an amount not
to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a third and any subsequent
citation issued for the same offense within a twelve (12) month period
of the date of the first offense.

   G.   Additional Penalties: Costs of Abatement. Nothing in this
Chapter shall preclude the City from pursuing the remedies made
applicable hereto elsewhere in this Municipal Code or under State law,
including but not limited to, as applicable, denial or revocation of
certificates of occupancy and injunctive relief. In any administrative
or criminal proceeding involving the abatement of a public nuisance, the
City shall also be entitled to recover its full reasonable costs of
abatement, including, but not limited to, investigation, analysis and
prosecuting the enforcement against the guilty party, upon submission of
proof of such cost by the City.

   H.   Public Nuisance Remedies. The prevailing party in any proceeding
associated with the abatement of a public nuisance as provided herein,
shall be entitled to recovery of attorneys' fees incurred in any such
proceeding, where the City has elected, at the initiation of that
individual action or proceeding to seek recovery of its own attorneys'
fees. In no action, administrative proceeding or special proceeding
shall an award of attorneys' fees to a prevailing party exceed the
amount of reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the City in the action
or proceeding.

[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]

9.100.100   Seizure of Evidence.

Any product(s) or substance(s) possessed, provided, distributed or sold
in violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be seized by the
enforcing officers and removed and stored in accordance with law.

[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]

9.100.110   Exclusions.

   A.   This Chapter shall not apply to drugs or substances lawfully
prescribed or to intoxicating chemical compounds which have been
approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration or which are
specifically permitted by California law, including without limitation,
intoxicating chemical compounds that are specifically excepted by the
California Uniform Controlled Substances Act (Health and Safety Code §
11000 et seq.).

   B.   This Chapter shall not apply to drugs or substances which are
prohibited by State or Federal law, including without limitation,
California Health and Safety Code Sections 11357.5, 11375.5, 11401 and
the Federal Controlled Substances Act

   C.   This Chapter shall not be deemed to prescribe any act which is
positively permitted, prohibited or preempted by any State or Federal
law or regulation.

[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]

9.100.120   Severability.

If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Chapter is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court
of competent jurisdiction or preempted by State or Federal legislation,
such decision or legislation shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Chapter. The City Council declares that it
would have passed this Chapter and each and every subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without regard
to any such decision or preemptive legislation.

[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]

Chapter 9.110
NOISE CONTROL

Sections:

   9.110.010   Purpose and Intent

   9.110.020   Definitions

   9.110.030   Noise Measurement Criteria

   9.110.040   Noise Measurement Procedure

   9.110.050   Base Ambient Noise Levels

   9.110.060   Noise Levels Prohibited

   9.110.070   Noise Source Exemptions

   9.110.080   Disturbing Noises Prohibited

   9.110.090   Noise Disturbances - Acts Specified

   9.110.100   Public Nuisance

   9.110.110   Notice and Penalties

   9.110.120   Additional Penalties

9.110.010   Purpose and Intent.

The purpose of this chapter is to establish criteria and standards for
the regulation of noise levels within the City of Adelanto. The City
Council declares and finds that excessive noise levels are detrimental
to the public health, welfare, and safety and are contrary to the public
interest. It is this chapter’s intent to protect persons form excessive
levels of noise from sources including but not limited to; persons,
animals, or fowl; automobiles, motorcycles, engines, machines, or other
mechanical devices; and loudspeakers, speakers, musical instruments,
stereos, radios, televisions, record players or other amplifying
devices. This chapter includes standards for the measurement of noise
levels to ensure that noise levels do not disturb and interfere with the
peace, comfort, or repose of the residents of the neighborhood from
which the noise is emitted.

[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]

9.110.020   Definitions.

The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Chapter, shall
have the meanings defined in this Section unless the context clearly
requires otherwise:

   A.   “A-weighted sound level” means the sound pressure level in
decibels as measured on a sound level meter using A-weighting network.
The level to read is designated db(A) or dB(A).

   B.   “Ambient noise level” means the all-encompassing noise level
associated with a given environment, being a composite of sounds from
all sources, excluding any intrusive noise.

   C.   "Commercial area" means any area occupied by businesses which
sell, rent, trade, or store goods, or which provide a service.

   D.   "Decibel (dB)" means a unit for measuring the amplitude of a
sound, equal to twenty (20) times the logarithm to the base 10 of the
ratio of the pressure of the sound measured to the reference pressure,
which is twenty (20) micropascals (twenty (20) micronewtons per square
meter).

   E.   "Emergency" means any occurrence or set of circumstances
involving actual or imminent danger, physical trauma or property damage
that demands immediate action.

   F.   "Emergency work" means any work performed for the purpose of
preventing or alleviating the danger, physical trauma or property damage
threatened or caused by an emergency.

   G.   "Industrial area" means any area occupied by land uses whose
primary operation involves manufacturing, assembling, processing, or
otherwise treating raw materials, semifinished products, or finished
products, for packaging and distribution to either wholesale or retail
markets.

   H.   "Noise" means any sound which annoys or disturbs humans, or
which causes or tends to cause an adverse psychological or physiological
effect on humans.

   I.   "Noise disturbance" means any sound which (a) endangers or
injures the safety or health of humans or animals, or (b) annoys or
disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities, or (c) endangers
or injures personal or real property.

   J.   "Noise sensitive zone" means any area designated for the purpose
of ensuring exceptional quiet, including a school (including nursery
school and preschool), church, library, courthouse, daycare facility,
while the same is in use, or any hospital, nursing home, or care
facility.

   K.   "Noise source" means a disturbance-causing operation which
originates from a single unit or noise generating mechanism which
operates simultaneously. Example of a single noise source is the
combination of motor, pump, and compressor; or a power plant with
several boilers.

   L.   "Noise zone" means defined areas or regions of a generally
consistent land use community wherein the ambient noise levels are
generally similar (within a range of five (5) decibels). Typically, most
sites within any given noise zone will be of comparable proximity to
major noise sources.

   M.   "Noncommercial purpose" means the use, operation, or maintenance
of any sound equipment for other than a commercial purpose, including,
but not limited to, philanthropic, political, patriotic and charitable
purposes.

   N.   “Person” means any natural person, partnership, cooperative
association, corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee,
assignee, or any other legal entity.

   O.   "Public right-of-way" means any street, avenue, boulevard,
highway, sidewalk or alley or similar place which is owned or controlled
by a governmental entity.

   P.   "Public space" means any real property or structures thereon
which are owned or controlled by a governmental entity and normally
accessible to the public, including but not limited to parks and other
recreation areas.

   Q.   “Responsible person” means any person who owns, leases, or is
lawfully in charge of the property or motor vehicle where the noise
violation takes place, or any person who owns or controls the source of
the noise or violation. If the responsible person is a minor, then the
parent or guardian who has custody of the child at the time of the
violation shall be the responsible person who is liable under this
chapter.

   R.   "Sound" means an oscillation in pressure, particle displacement,
particle velocity or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal
forces that causes compression and rarefaction of that medium. The
description of sound may include any characteristic of such sound,
including duration, intensity, and frequency.

   S.   "Sound amplifying equipment" means any machine or device for the
amplification of the human voice, or music, or any other sound,
excluding standard automobiles when used and heard only by the occupants
of the vehicle in which the device is installed and, as used in this
Chapter, warning devices on authorized emergency vehicles or horns or
other warning devices on any vehicle used only for traffic safety
purposes.

   T.   "Sound level" means the weighted sound pressure level obtained
by the use of a sound level meter and frequency weighting network, such
as A, B or C, as specified in American National Standards Institute
specifications for sound level meters (ANSI S1.4-1971 or the latest
approved revision thereof). If the frequency weighting employed is not
indicated, the A-weighting shall apply.

   U.   "Sound level meter" means an instrument, including a microphone,
an amplifier, an output meter, and frequency weighting networks for the
measurement of sound levels, which satisfies the requirements pertinent
for type S2A meters in American National Standards Institute
specifications for sound level meters, S1.4-1971, or the most recent
revision thereof.

   V.   "Vibration" means mechanical motion of the earth or ground,
building, or other type of structure, induced by the operation of any
mechanical device or equipment located upon or affixed thereto.

[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]

9.110.030   Noise Measurement Criteria.

Any noise level measurements made pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be performed using a sound level meter as defined in this
chapter. The location selected for measuring exterior noise levels shall
be at the property line of the property containing the offending noise
source at which the noise level is at a maximum, or along the affected
property’s boundary line closest to the noise source.

[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]

9.110.040   Noise Measurement Procedure.

   The measurement procedure presented in this Section assumes that
personnel performing the noise measurements have been trained in the use
of the instruments and in interpretation of measured data. Upon receipt
of a complaint from a citizen, an agent of the City, equipped with sound
level measurement equipment satisfying the requirements specified in
Section 9.110.020, shall investigate the complaint. The investigation
shall consist of a measurement and the gathering of data to adequately
define the noise problem, and shall include the following:

   A.   Nonacoustic Data.

      1.   Type of noise source.

      2.   Location of noise source relative to complainant's property.

      3.   Time period during which noise source is considered by
complainant to be intrusive.

      4.   Total duration of noise produced by noise source.

      5.   Date and time of noise measurement survey.

   B.   Procedure. Utilizing the A-weighting scale of the sound level
meter and the slow meter response, the noise level shall be measured at
a position or positions along the complainant's property line closest to
the noise source or at the location along the offending property’s
boundary line where the noise level is at a maximum. In general, the
microphone shall be located five feet (5') above the ground and ten feet
(10') or more from the nearest reflective surface, where possible.
However, in those cases where another elevation is deemed appropriate,
the latter shall be utilized. If the noise complaint is related to
interior noise levels, interior noise measurements shall be made at a
point at least four feet (4') from the wall, ceiling, or floor nearest
the noise source with windows in the normal seasonal configuration.
Calibration of the instrument being used shall be performed immediately
prior to and following the recording of any noise data utilizing the
acoustic calibrator.

[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]

9.110.050   Base Ambient Noise Levels.

   A.   All ambient noise measurements shall commence in decibels within
the respective zones and times as follows:

 

  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------ ----------------------
  Zone                    Time                                       Sound Level Decibels

  All Residential Zones   10:00 pm Sunday to 7:00 a.m. Monday        45 dB(A)
                                                                     
                          10:00 pm Monday to 7:00 a.m. Tuesday       
                                                                     
                          10:00 pm Tuesday to 7:00 a.m. Wednesday    
                                                                     
                          10:00 pm Wednesday to 7:00 a.m. Thursday   
                                                                     
                          10:00 pm Thursday to 7:00 a.m. Friday      
                                                                     
                          11:00 pm Friday to 7:00 a.m. Saturday      
                                                                     
                          11:00 pm Saturday to 7:00 a.m. Sunday      

  All Commercial Zones    Anytime                                    70 dB(A)

  All Industrial Zones    Anytime                                    75 dB(A)
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------ ----------------------

 

   B.   If the ambient noise level exceeds the applicable limit as noted
in the above table, the ambient noise level shall be the standard.

[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]

9.110.060   Noise Levels Prohibited.

Unless otherwise permitted, noise levels shall not exceed the ambient
noise levels in Section 9.110.050 by the following dB(A) levels for the
cumulative period of time specified:

   A.   Less than five (5) dB(A) for a cumulative period of more than
thirty (30) minutes in any hour.

   B.   Less than ten (10) dB(A) for a cumulative period of more than
fifteen (15) minutes in any hour.

   C.   Less than fifteen (15) dB(A) for a cumulative period of more
than five (5) minutes in any hour.

   D.   Less than twenty (20) dB(A) for a cumulative period of more than
one (1) minute in any hour.

   E.   Twenty (20) dB(A) or more for any period of time.

[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]

9.110.070   Noise Source Exemptions.

The following activities shall be exempted from the provisions of this
chapter:

   A.   All mechanical devices, apparatus or equipment used, related to
or connected with emergency machinery, vehicles or work including for
the purpose of responding to an emergency, or necessary to restore,
preserve, protect or save lives or property from imminent danger of loss
or harm.

   B.   Warning devices that are required by law to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the community.

   C.   The provisions of this regulation shall not preclude the
construction, operation, maintenance and repairs of equipment, apparatus
or facilities of park and recreation projects, public works projects or
essential public works services and facilities.

   D.   Activities conducted on the grounds of any elementary,
intermediate, secondary, or post-secondary school during regular hours
of operation.

   E.   Outdoor gatherings, public dances and shows, provided said
events are authorized by the City.

   F.   Activities conducted in public parks and public playgrounds,
provided said events are conducted pursuant to a permit as required by
this Code.

   G.   Any activity to the extent regulation thereof has been preempted
by state or federal law.

   H.   Traffic on any roadway or railroad right-of-way, including
public transit operations.

   I.   The operation of any airport.

   J.   Construction, alteration, and demolition activity on private
properties that are determined by the Director of Building and Safety to
be essential to the completion of a project.

   K.   Refuse collection conducted by the City’s franchised waste
collection service(s).

   L.   Sounds generated in commercial and industrial zones that are
necessary and incidental to the uses permitted therein.

   M.   Sounds generated in connection with speech or communication
protected by the U.S. Constitution or the California Constitution,
except to the extent such sounds are subject to permissible time, manner
and place restrictions.

[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]

9.110.080   Disturbing Noises Prohibited.

   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, and in
addition thereto, it is unlawful for any person to willfully make or
continue, or cause to be made or continued, a loud, unnecessary or
unusual noise which disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or
which causes any discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable person of
normal sensitiveness residing in the area.

   B.   The standards that shall be considered in determining whether a
violation of the provisions of this Section exists shall expressly
include, but not be limited to, whether the violation occurs between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. Friday until 7:00 a.m. Saturday, 11:00 p.m. Saturday
until 7:00 a.m. Sunday, and 10:00 p.m. any other day until 7:00 a.m. the
following morning. Other standards shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:

      1.   The sound level of the objectionable noise.

      2.   The sound level of the ambient noise.

      3.   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping
facilities.

      4.   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise
emanates and the area where it is received.

      5.   The density of the inhabitation of the area within which the
noise emanates and where it is received.

      6.   The time of day or night the noise occurs.

      7.   The duration of the noise and its tonal, informational or
musical content.

      8.   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual.

      9.   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural.

      10.   Whether the noise is continuous, recurrent, or intermittent.

      11.   Whether the noise is produced by a commercial or
noncommercial activity.

[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]

9.110.090   Noise Disturbances - Acts Specified.

The following acts, and the causing or permitting thereof, are declared
to be in violation of this Chapter:

   A.   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, and similar
devices. Operating, playing, or permitting the operation or playing of
any radio, car radio, stereo, car stereo, stereo receiver, computer,
compact disc player, tape recorder, cassette player, television set,
phonograph, drum, musical instrument, or similar device, which produces
or reproduces music or sound such that the music or sound therefrom
creates a noise disturbance across a residential real property line,
including partitions common to two (2) residences within a building,
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. Friday until 7:00 a.m. Saturday, 11:00
p.m. Saturday until 7:00 a.m. Sunday, and 10:00 p.m. any other day until
seven a.m. the following morning, or at any time violates the provisions
of Section 9.110.060. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other
section in this Chapter, the provisions of this subsection may be
enforced by a peace officer.

   B.   Loudspeakers (amplified sound). Using or operating for any
purpose any loudspeaker, loudspeaker system, or similar device such that
the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a residential
real property line, including partitions common to two (2) residences
within a building, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. Friday until 7:00
a.m. Saturday, 11:00 p.m. Saturday until 7:00 a.m. Sunday, and 10:00
p.m. any other day until 7:00 a.m. the following morning, or at any time
violates the provisions of Section 9.110.060, except for any
noncommercial public speaking, public assembly or other activity for
which a variance has been issued by the City.

   C.   Street sales. Offering for sale, selling anything or advertising
by shouting or outcry within any residential or commercial area or noise
sensitive zone of the City except by variance issued by the appropriate
City department. The provisions of this subsection shall not be
construed to prohibit the selling by outcry of merchandise, food and
beverages at licensed sporting events, parades, carnivals, fairs,
circuses or other similar licensed public entertainment events.

   D.   Automobile horns. Sounding any horn or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus, or other motor vehicle in any other manner
or circumstances or for any other purpose than required or permitted by
the Vehicle Code or other California law.

   E.   Automotive engines and mufflers. Racing the engine of any motor
vehicle while the vehicle is not in motion, except when necessary to do
so in the course of repairing, adjusting or testing the same.
Additionally, operating or permitting the use of any motor vehicle, on
any public right-of-way or public place or on private property within a
residential zone for which the exhaust muffler, intake muffler or any
other noise abatement device has been modified or changed in a manner
such that the noise emitted by the motor vehicle is increased above that
emitted by the vehicle as originally manufactured.

   F.   Loading and unloading. Loading, unloading, opening, closing or
other handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage
cans, or similar objects between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
the following day in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance
across a residential real property line or at any time to violate the
provisions of Section 9.110.060.

   G.   Vibration. Operating or permitting the operation of any device
that creates vibration which is above the vibration perception threshold
of an individual at or beyond the property boundary of the source if on
private property or at one hundred fifty feet (150') (forty-six (46)
meters) from the source if on a public space or public right-of-way. For
the purposes of this subsection, "vibration perception threshold" means
the minimum ground or structure-borne vibrational motion necessary to
cause a normal person

2022 S-42   9 - 69

City of Adelanto Municipal Code   Title 9 - Public Peace, Safety and
Morals

to be aware of the vibration by such directed means as, but not limited
to, sensation by touch or visual observation of moving objects. The
perception threshold shall be presumed to be .001 g's in the frequency
range zero (0)—thirty (30) hertz and .003 g's in the frequency range
between thirty (30) and one hundred (100) hertz.

   H.   Explosives, firearms, and similar devices. Using or firing
explosives, firearms, firecrackers, or similar devices such that the
sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a real property line,
or within a noise sensitive zone, public space or public right-of-way,
without first obtaining a variance issued by an authorized City
employee.

   I.   Stationary nonemergency signaling devices.

      1.   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any electronically
amplified signal from any stationary bell, chime, siren, whistle, or
similar device, intended primarily for non-emergency purposes, from any
place, for more than ten (10) seconds in any hourly period.

      2.   Houses of religious worship and chimes in the civic center
shall be exempt from the operation of this provision.

      3.   Sound sources covered by this provision and not exempted
under Section 9.110.090.I.2. may be exempted by a variance issued by the
appropriate City department.

   J.   Emergency signaling devices.

      1.   The intentional sounding or permitting the sounding outdoors
of any fire, burglar or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar
stationary emergency signaling device, or any motor vehicle burglar
alarm, except for emergency purposes or for testing, as provided in
Section 9.110.090.J.2.

      2.   Testing of a stationary emergency signaling device shall not
occur before 8:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m. Any such testing shall only
use the minimum cycle test time. In no case shall such test time exceed
ten (10) seconds.

      3.   Testing of the complete emergency signaling system, including
the functioning of the signaling device and the personnel response to
the signaling device, shall not occur more than once in each calendar
month. Such testing shall not occur before 8:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m.
The time limit specified in Section 9.110.090.J.2. shall not apply to
such complete system testing.

      4.   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar
or fire alarm unless such alarm is automatically terminated within
fifteen (15) minutes of activation. Such testing shall not occur before
8:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m.

   K.   Noise sensitive zones.

      1.   Creating or causing the creation of any sound within any
noise sensitive zone, so as to exceed the specified land use noise
standards set forth in Section 9.110.060; or

      2.   Creating or causing the creation of any sound within or
adjacent to any noise sensitive zone containing a hospital, nursing
home, police or sheriff’s station, fire station, school (including
nursery school and preschool), library, courthouse, or other designated
use so as to interfere with the functions of such activity or annoy the
patients or participants of such activity(ies).

2022 S-42   9 - 70

City of Adelanto Municipal Code   Title 9 - Public Peace, Safety and
Morals

   L.   Domestic power tools and landscaping equipment.

      1.   Operating or permitting the operation of any mechanically
powered saw, sander, drill, grinder, lawn or garden tool, or similar
tool between 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day so as to create a
noise disturbance across a residential or commercial real property line.

      2.   Any motor, machinery, pump, etc., shall be sufficiently
enclosed or muffled and maintained so as not to create a noise
disturbance.

      3.   Operating leaf blowers, consisting of portable power
equipment used in any landscape maintenance, construction, property
repair or property maintenance for the purpose of blowing, dispersing or
redistributing dust, dirt, leaves, grass clippings, cuttings, or
trimmings from plants, trees or other debris is unlawful if operated
within any residential area or in any nonresidential area within four
hundred feet (400') of any residential area in the City between the
hours after 8:00 p.m. and before 7:00 a.m. Monday through Friday, after
7:00 p.m. and before 9:00 a.m. on Saturdays, and after 7:00 p.m. and
before 10:00 a.m. on Sundays and legal holidays. Notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 9.110.110, violations of this subsection shall be
infractions except as specifically provided in this Section. The first
violation in any one (1) year period shall be subject to a fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00); a second violation in any one (1) year period shall be
subject to a fine of seventy-five dollars ($75.00); a third violation in
any one (1) year period shall be subject to a fine of one hundred and
fifty dollars ($150.00). A fourth or subsequent violation of this
subsection in any one (1) year period may be filed as a misdemeanor
pursuant to Section 1.20.010. Notwithstanding the provisions of any
other Section in this Chapter, the provisions of this subsection may be
enforced by a peace officer.

   M.   Air-conditioning or air refrigerating equipment. Operating or
permitting the operation of any air-conditioning or air refrigerating
equipment in such a manner as to exceed any of the following sound
levels measured as specified in the American Society of Heating,
Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers Code of Recommended
Practices:

 

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------- --------------------------------
  Measurement Location                                                                                                                                                                    Units Installed Before 01-01-80   Units Installed After 01-01-80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                          (dB(A))                           (dB(A))

  Any point on neighboring property line, five feet (5') above grade level, no closer than three feet (3') from any wall                                                                  60                                55

  Center of neighboring patio five feet (5') above grade level, no closer than three feet (3') from any wall                                                                              55                                50

  Outside the neighboring living area window nearest the equipment location, not more than three feet (3') from the window opening, but at least three feet (3') from any other surface   55                                50
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------- --------------------------------

[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]

9.110.100   Public Nuisance.

A violation of this chapter by any person responsible for committing,
causing or maintaining such violation shall constitute a public nuisance
that shall be subject to the provisions of Chapters 9.110 and 1.20 of
this Code.

[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]

9.110.110   Notice and Penalties.

   A.   Enforcement of any provision of this chapter may be made through
Section 1.20.070.

   B.   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall, if feasible,
first be the subject of a written notice to the responsible person that
if, within a twelve (12) month period following the initial response,
city personnel, including a peace officer, are again required to respond
to the same person for violating this chapter, a criminal and/or
administrative citation will be issued pursuant to Chapter 1.20 of this
Code. Such notice shall be signed by the responsible person; however,
such notice shall not be ineffective due to a party’s refusal to sign.
If a responsible person declines or refuses to accept or sign any
warning or notice, then such warning or notice may be issued pursuant to
Section 1.20.020.D. Subsequent violation(s) occurring after issuance of
a written warning shall be cause for a criminal and/or administrative
citation to be issued pursuant to Chapter 1.20 and subject to
appropriate legal action as provided by law, including criminal and/or
civil enforcement.

   C.   Notwithstanding Section 9.110.090.L.3, any person found to be
violating any provision of this chapter shall be punishable in
accordance with Chapter 1.20 and a fine not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for the first violation.

   D.   Any person convicted of a subsequent violation under this
Chapter shall, for each separate violation, be subject to: (A) a fine in
an amount not to exceed one thousand two hundred fifty dollars
($1,250.00) for a second conviction of the same offense within a twelve
(12)-month period from the date of the first offense; and (B) a fine in
an amount not to exceed fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500) for the third
conviction of the same offense within a twelve (12)-month period from
the date of the first offense. The fine for a fourth and any subsequent
conviction(s) of the same offense within a twelve (12)-month period from
the date of the first offense shall be two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).

   E.   In addition, in the discretion of the City Attorney and based
upon the specific facts and circumstances presented to him or her,
including the time of day or night the alleged offense occurred, any
such violation may be charged as an infraction subject to the penalties
contained in Chapter 1.20.

[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]

9.110.120   Additional Penalties.

Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the city from pursuing any other
legal remedies provided by this code or otherwise available to the city
in law or in equity.

[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]

TITLE 10
VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC

Chapters:

   10.02   Definitions

   10.04   Administration

   10.06   Enforcement and Obedience

   10.08   One-Way Streets and Alleys

   10.10   Special Stops

   10.12   Miscellaneous Driving Rules

   10.14   Pedestrians

   10.16   Stopping, Standing and Parking for Certain Purposes or in
Certain Places

   10.18   Stopping for Loading or Unloading

   10.20   Parking Citation Processing

   10.22   Restricted Use of Streets

   10.24   Special Speed Zones

   10.26   Authority to Establish, Amend Traffic Schedules/Fines

   10.28   Traffic Regulations

   10.30   Bicycles, Motorcycles and Off-Road Vehicles

   10.32   Bicycle Licensing, Registration, Impounding and Fees for
Service

   10.34   Skateboards, Roller Skates, Inline Skates and Other
Self-Powered Wheeled Devices

   10.36   Trip Reduction and Travel Demand Management

   10.38   Impounded/Stored Vehicles/Traffic Offender Fund

   10.40   Electric Vehicle Charging Stations

Chapter 10.02
DEFINITIONS

Sections:

   10.02.010   Application of Vehicle Code Definitions

   10.02.020   Application of Definitions

10.02.010 Application of Vehicle Code Definitions.

Whenever any words or phrases used herein are not defined, but are
defined in the Vehicle Code of the State of California and amendments
thereto, such definitions shall apply.

10.02.020 Application of Definitions.

The following words and phrases when used in this Title shall, for the
purpose of this Title, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them
in this Chapter.

   A.   “Bicycle” - The word “bicycle” means a light vehicle without a
motor, having two (2) wheels, handle bars and a seat or seats, and
propelled by the operator.

   B.   “City Traffic Engineer” - The words “City Traffic Engineer”
whenever hereinafter employed means and refers to the City Engineer or
his/her designee.

   C.   “Coach” - The word “coach” means any motorbus, motor coach,
trackless trolley or passenger stage used as a common carrier of
passengers.

   D.   “City Council” - The word “City Council” means the Council of
the City of Adelanto.

   E.   “Curb” - The word “curb” means the lateral boundary of the
roadway whether such curb be marked by curbing construction, or not so
marked; the word “curb” as herein used shall not include the line
dividing the roadway of a street from parking strips in the center of a
street, nor from tracks or rights-of-way of public utility companies.

   F.   “Divisional Island” - The term “divisional island” means a
raised island located in the roadway and separating opposing or
conflicting streams of traffic.

   G.   “Holidays” - Within the meaning of this Title, holidays are as
designated by Government Code Sections 6700 and 6701.

   H.   “Loading Zone” - The term “loading zone” means the space
adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers or materials.

   I.   “Official Time Standard” - Whenever certain hours are named
herein, they shall mean Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time as may be
in current use in this City.

   J.   “Park” - The word “park” means to stand or leave standing any
vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading of
passengers or materials.

   K.   “Parkway” - The word “parkway” means that portion of a street
other than a roadway or a sidewalk.

   L.   “Passenger Loading Zone” - The term “passenger loading zone”
means the space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.

   M.   “Pedestrian” - The word “pedestrian” means any person afoot.

   N.   “Police Officer” - The word “police officer” means every officer
of the Police Department of this City or any officer authorized to
direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic
regulations.

   O.   “Stop” - The word “stop” when required means complete cessation
of movement.

   P.   “Stop or Stand” - The term “stop or stand,” when prohibited,
means any stopping or standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device.

   Q.   “Vehicle Code” - The term “Vehicle Code” means the Vehicle Code
of the State of California.

Chapter 10.04
ADMINISTRATION

Sections:

   10.04.010   Police Administration

   10.04.020   Duty of Traffic Division

   10.04.030   Traffic Accident Studies

   10.04.040   Traffic Accident Reports

10.04.010 Police Administration.

There is hereby established in the Police Department of this City, a
traffic division to be under the control of an officer of police,
appointed by and directly responsible to, the Chief of Police.

10.04.020 Duty of Traffic Division.

It shall be the duty of the traffic division with such aid as may be
rendered by other members of the Police Department to enforce the street
traffic regulations of this City and all of the State vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in this City, to make arrests for traffic
violations, to investigate traffic accidents and to cooperate with the
City Traffic Engineer and other officers of the City in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to
improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specially
imposed upon said division by this Title and the traffic ordinances of
this City.

10.04.030 Traffic Accident Studies.

Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the
traffic division shall cooperate with the City Traffic Engineer in
conducting studies of such accidents and determining remedial measures.

10.04.040 Traffic Accident Reports.

The traffic division shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports, or cards referring to them, shall be
filed according to current Police Department policy. Such reports shall
be available for the use and information of the City Traffic Engineer.

Chapter 10.06
ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE

Sections:

   10.06.010   Violation as Infraction Unless Provided Otherwise

   10.06.020   Authority of Police and Fire Department Officials

   10.06.030   Unauthorized Persons not to Direct Traffic

   10.06.040   Compliance with Lawful Orders Required

   10.06.050   Riding on Motorcycles and Bicycles

   10.06.060   Application to Bicycles and Animals

   10.06.070   Obstructing Officers

   10.06.080   Application to Public Employees

   10.06.090   Exemption of Certain Vehicles

   10.06.100   Duty, Obligation of Operators of Vehicles Exempt from
Chapter

   10.06.110   Report of Damage to Certain Property

   10.06.120   Removal of Vehicles from Streets

   10.06.130   Authority of Police in Crowds

10.06.010 Violation as Infraction Unless Provided Otherwise.

Except as otherwise provided by any specific Section of this Chapter, it
shall be an infraction for any person to violate or fail to comply with
any provision of this Chapter.

10.06.020 Authority of Police and Fire Department Officials.

Officers of the Police Department and such officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, audible or other signal in conformance with traffic laws,
except that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite
traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department
or members of the Fire Department may direct traffic as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions to the contrary contained in
this Title or the Vehicle Code.

10.06.030 Unauthorized Persons not to Direct Traffic.

No person other than an officer of the Police Department or members of
the Fire Department or a person authorized by the Chief of Police or a
person authorized by law shall direct or attempt to direct traffic by
voice, hand or other signal, except that persons may operate, when and
as herein provided, any mechanical pushbutton signal erected by order of
the City Traffic Engineer.

10.06.040 Compliance with Lawful Orders Required.

No person shall fail or refuse to comply with or to perform any act
forbidden by any lawful order, signal or direction of a traffic or
police officer, or a member of the Fire Department, or a person
authorized by the Chief of Police or by law.

10.06.050 Riding on Motorcycles and Bicycles.

No person shall ride upon a highway on either a motorcycle or bicycle on
a portion of said vehicle, which is not specifically designed for the
carrying of passengers, nor shall any person operating a motorcycle or
bicycle upon a highway permit another to do so.

The provisions of this Section shall not apply to operation of vehicles
upon property used for raceways or racing facilities in accordance with
a license or permit issued by the City.

10.06.060 Application to Bicycles and Animals.

Every person riding a bicycle or riding or driving an animal upon a
highway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all
of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this Title except
those provisions which by their very nature can have no application.

10.06.070 Obstructing Officers.

No person shall interfere with or obstruct in any way any police officer
or other officer or employee of this City in their enforcement of the
provisions of this Title. The removal, obliteration or concealment of
any chalk mark or other distinguishing mark used by any police officer
or other employee or officer of this City in connection with the
enforcement of the parking regulations of this Title shall, if done for
the purpose of evading the provisions of this Title, constitute such
interference or obstruction.

10.06.080 Application to Public Employees.

The provisions of this Title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, the
State, or any county or city. It is unlawful for any driver to violate
any of the provisions of this Title except as otherwise permitted in
this Title or by State statute.

10.06.090 Exemption of Certain Vehicles.

   A.   Emergency Vehicles. The provisions of this Title regulating the
operation, parking and standing of vehicles shall not apply to vehicles
operated by the Police or Fire Department, any public ambulance or any
public utility vehicle or any private ambulance, which public utility
vehicle or private ambulance has qualified as an authorized emergency
vehicle, when any vehicle mentioned in this Section is operated in the
manner specified by the Vehicle Code in response to an emergency call.

   B.   Due Care Required. The foregoing exemptions shall not, however,
relieve the operator of any such vehicle from obligation to exercise due
care for the safety of others or the consequences of his willful
disregard of the safety of others.

   C.   Utility and Post Office Vehicles. The provisions of this Title
regulating the parking or standing of vehicles shall not apply to any
vehicle of a City department or public utility while necessarily in use
for construction or repair work or any vehicle owned or operated by the
United States Postal Service while in use for the collection,
transportation or delivery of United States mail.

10.06.100 Duty, Obligation of Operators of Vehicles Exempt from Chapter.

The exemptions contained in Section 10.06.090 shall not, however,
relieve the operator of any such vehicle from the obligation to exercise
due care for the safety of others or the consequences of his willful
disregard of the safety of others.

10.06.110 Report of Damage to Certain Property.

   A.   Public Property Included. The operator of a vehicle or the
person in charge of any animal involved in any accident resulting in
damage to any property publicly owned or owned by a public utility,
including but not limited to any fire hydrant, parking meter, lighting
post, telephone pole, electric light or power pole, or resulting in
damage to any tree, traffic control device or other property of a like
nature located in or along any street, shall within twenty-four (24)
hours after such accident, make a written report of such accident to the
Police Department of this City.

   B.   Contents of Report. Every such report shall state the time when
and the place where the accident took place, the name and address of the
person owning and of the person operating or in charge of such vehicle
or animal, the license number of every such vehicle, and shall briefly
describe the property damage in such accident.

   C.   Physical Incapacity. The operator of any vehicle involved in an
accident shall not be subject to the requirements or penalties of this
Section if and during the time he is physically incapable of making a
report, but in such event he shall make a report as required in
Subsection A. of this Section within twenty-four (24) hours after
regaining ability to make such report.

10.06.120 Removal of Vehicles from Streets.

Any regularly employed and salaried officer of the Police Department or
Code Enforcement Department of this City may remove or cause to be
removed:

   A.   Any vehicle that has been parked or left standing upon a street
or highway for seventy-two (72) or more consecutive hours;

   B.   Any vehicle which is parked or left standing upon a street or
highway between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. when such parking
or standing is prohibited by ordinance or resolution of this City and
signs are posted giving notice of such removal;

   C.   Any vehicle which is parked or left standing upon a street or
highway where the use of such street or highway or a portion thereof is
necessary for the cleaning, repair or construction of the street or
highway or for the installation of underground utilities or where the
use of the street or highway or any portion thereof is authorized for a
purpose other than the normal flow of traffic or where the use of the
street or highway or any portion thereof is necessary for the movement
of equipment, articles or structures of unusual size, and the parking of
such vehicle would prohibit or interfere with such use or movement,
provided that signs giving notice that such vehicle may be removed are
erected or placed at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the removal.

10.06.130 Authority of Police in Crowds.

At places where large numbers of people and vehicles are to gather or
have gathered, nothing in this Title shall be construed to prevent any
police officer from prohibiting any person from parking any vehicle upon
or using any street or sidewalk, or from prohibiting any pedestrian from
using any street or sidewalk, and said police officer shall have
authority to direct the parking of vehicles in any reasonable manner,
way or direction; and it is hereby declared to be unlawful for any
person to fail to promptly obey the said police officer’s order, signal
or command, regardless of any other provision of this Title.

Chapter 10.08
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS

Section:

   10.08.010   One-way Traffic Signs

10.08.010 One-way Traffic Signs.

Whenever any ordinance or resolution of this City designates any one-way
street or alley, the City Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain
signs giving notice thereof; and no such regulations shall be effective
unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful
traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.

Chapter 10.10
SPECIAL STOPS

Sections:

   10.10.010   Erection Required Where

   10.10.020   Emerging from Alley, Driveway or Building

10.10.010 Erection Required Where.

The City Traffic Engineer shall erect and maintain, or cause to be
erected and maintained, stop signs as provided in the Vehicle Code of
the State as follows:

   A.   At each and every street intersecting a through street as may be
so designated by ordinance or resolution of the City Council;

   B.   At locations within intersections, other than designated in
Subsection A. of this Section, where a stop sign is required on the
basis of a traffic engineering study;

   C.   At any railroad grade crossing where a stop sign is required on
the basis of a traffic engineering study.

10.10.020 Emerging from Alley, Driveway or Building.

The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or
into the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway.

Chapter 10.12
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES

Sections:

   10.12.010   Driving through Processions

   10.12.020   Clinging to Moving Vehicle

   10.12.030   New Pavement and Markings

   10.12.040   Obedience to Barriers and Signs

   10.12.050   Traffic Barriers

   10.12.060   Obstructing Intersection Traffic

   10.12.070   Animals in Unattended Vehicles

   10.12.080   Vehicle Operation in Public Parks and Lands

   10.12.090   Vehicles on Private Property

10.12.010 Driving through Processions.

No operator of any vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral procession or a parade, provided that such vehicles are
conspicuously so designated. The directing of all vehicles and traffic
on any street over which such funeral procession or parade wishes to
pass shall be subject to the order of the Police Department.

10.12.020 Clinging to Moving Vehicle.

No person shall attach himself with his hands, or to catch on, or hold
on to with his hands or by other means, to any moving vehicle or train
for the purpose of receiving motive power therefrom.

10.12.030 New Pavement and Markings.

No person shall ride or drive any animal or any vehicle over or across
any newly made pavement or freshly painted markings in any street when a
barrier sign, cone marker or other warning device is in place warning
persons not to drive over or across such pavement or marking, or when
any such device is in place indicating that the street or any portion
thereof is closed.

10.12.040 Obedience to Barriers and Signs.

No person, public utility or department in the City shall erect or place
any barrier or sign on any street unless of a type approved by the City
Traffic Engineer or disobey the instructions, remove, tamper with or
destroy any barrier or sign lawfully placed on any street by any person,
public utility or by any department of this City.

10.12.050 Traffic Barriers.

No person shall operate a vehicle contrary to the directions or
provisions of any barrier or sign erected:

   A.   Pursuant to the provisions of any ordinance of the City of
Adelanto; or

   B.   By any public utility; or

   C.   By any department of the City of Adelanto; or

   D.   By any other person pursuant to law or contract with the City,
nor shall any unauthorized person move or alter the position of any such
barrier or sign.

10.12.060 Obstructing Intersection Traffic.

No operator of any vehicle shall enter an intersection or a marked
crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is operating
without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.

10.12.070 Animals in Unattended Vehicles.

No person shall leave an animal in any unattended vehicle without
adequate ventilation or in such a manner as to subject the animal to
extreme temperatures which adversely affect the animal’s health or
welfare.

10.12.080 Vehicle Operation in Public Parks and Lands.

It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, drive, move, park or
leave standing in or upon any public park or public lands, any motorized
vehicle, except upon parking facilities or roadways designed and
established for vehicular traffic, without written authorization from
the Chief of Police or his authorized representative. This authorization
shall be presented upon demand to any peace officer.

10.12.090 Vehicles on Private Property.

It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive or leave any
vehicle in, over or upon any private property without the written
permission of the owner thereof, or the person entitled to the
possession thereof for the time being, or the authorized agent of
either, and that such person, upon request of a peace officer, display
such written permission.

Chapter 10.14
PEDESTRIANS

Sections:

   10.14.010   Crosswalks - Establishment between Intersections

   10.14.020   Crosswalks - Establishment at Intersections

   10.14.030   Prohibiting the Use of Crosswalks by Pedestrians

   10.14.040   Violation - Penalty

10.14.010 Crosswalks - Establishment between Intersections.

   A.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council
determines, upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation,
that a crosswalk between intersections would facilitate the orderly
movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, the City Council shall by
resolution direct the City Engineer to provide and maintain painted
markings or other appropriately devised symbols or warning signs at all
crosswalks which have been designated as such.

   B.   Removal. Whenever the City Council finds, upon the basis of a
traffic engineering study, that the conditions for which a crosswalk has
been provided and maintained as provided in Subsection A. of this
Section no longer exist, the City Council shall by resolution direct the
City Engineer to remove such markings, symbols or signs from such
crosswalk.

10.14.020 Crosswalks - Establishment at Intersections.

   A.   The City Council authorizes the City Engineer to provide and
maintain painted crosswalk markings or other appropriately devised
symbols or warning signs at any intersection whenever a traffic
engineering investigation indicates that such markings, symbols or signs
would facilitate the orderly movement of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic.

   B.   Removal. Whenever the City Engineer, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, finds that the conditions for which painted
crosswalk markings or other appropriately devised symbols or warning
signs at any intersection have been provided and maintained as provided
in Subsection A. of this Section no longer exist, the City Engineer
shall remove such markings, symbols or signs at such crosswalk.

10.14.030 Prohibiting the Use of Crosswalks by Pedestrians.

   A.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council
determines, upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, that
prohibiting the use of any crosswalk is necessary, the City Council
shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to erect and maintain signs
adjacent to such crosswalk directing that pedestrians shall not cross in
the crosswalk.

   B.   Removal. Whenever the City Council determines, upon the basis of
a traffic engineering investigation, that the conditions for which signs
were erected prohibiting the use of a crosswalk as provided in
Subsection A. of this Section no longer exist, the City Council shall by
resolution direct the City Engineer to remove such signs.

10.14.040 Violation - Penalty.

Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter or disobeying
any signs or markings installed pursuant thereto shall be guilty of an
infraction.

Chapter 10.16
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES OR IN CERTAIN PLACES

Sections:

   10.16.010   Application of Regulations

   10.16.020   No Stopping Zones and No Parking Areas

   10.16.030   No Parking Areas Regulations

   10.16.040   Handicap Parking

   10.16.050   Disabled Person Parking Spaces Loading and Unloading
Areas Designated

   10.16.060   Use of Streets for Storage of Vehicles Prohibited

   10.16.070   Washing or Polishing Vehicles

   10.16.080   Parking Adjacent to Schools

   10.16.090   Parking Prohibited on Narrow Streets

   10.16.100   Parking for Certain Purposes Prohibited

   10.16.110   Emergency Parking Signs

   10.16.120   Parking on City Property

   10.16.130   Police and Fire Vehicles

   10.16.140   Parking Parallel on One-way Streets

   10.16.150   Parking Space Markings

   10.16.160   No Stopping Zones Regulations

   10.16.170   Fifteen (15) Minute Parking

   10.16.180   Thirty (30) Minute Parking

   10.16.190   One (1) Hour Parking

   10.16.200   Two (2) Hour Parking

   10.16.210   Penalty - Continuing Violations

   10.16.220   Fines

10.16.010 Application of Regulations.

   A.   Exception. The provisions of this Title prohibiting the
stopping, standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or
at those times herein specified, except when it is necessary to stop a
vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or official traffic control device.

   B.   More Restrictive Provisions. The provisions of this Title
imposing a time limit on standing or parking shall not relieve any
person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive provisions of
the Vehicle Code or the ordinances of this City prohibiting or limiting
the standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified
times.

10.16.020 No Stopping Zones and No Parking Areas.

The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to maintain by
appropriate signs or by paint upon the curb surface, all no stopping
zones, no parking areas and restricted parking areas, as defined and
described in this Title.

When said curb markings or signs are in place, no operator of any
vehicle shall stop, stand or park such vehicle adjacent to any such
legible curb marking or sign in violation of any of the provisions of
this Title.

10.16.030 No Parking Areas Regulations; Fine.

No operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand, park or leave standing
such vehicle in any of the following places, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of
a police officer or other authorized officer, or traffic sign or signal:

   A.   Within any divisional island unless authorized and clearly
indicated with appropriate signs or markings.

   B.   On either side of any street between the projected property
lines of any public walk, public steps, street or thoroughfare
terminating at such street, when such area is indicated by appropriate
signs or by red paint upon the curb surface.

   C.   In any area where the City Traffic Engineer determines that the
parking or stopping of a vehicle would constitute a traffic hazard or
would endanger life or property, when such area is indicated by
appropriate signs or by red paint upon the curb surface.

   D.   In any area established by resolution of the City Council as a
no parking area, when such area is indicated by appropriate signs or by
red paint upon the curb surface.

   E.   Upon, along or across any railway track in such manner as to
hinder, delay or obstruct the movement of any car traveling upon such
track.

   F.   In any area where the parking or stopping of any vehicle would
constitute a traffic hazard or would endanger life or property.

   G.   On any street or highway where the use of such street or highway
or a portion thereof is necessary for the cleaning, repair or
construction of the street or highway or the installation of underground
utilities or where the use of the street or highway or any portion
thereof is authorized for a purpose other than the normal flow of
traffic or where the use of the street or highway or any portion thereof
is necessary for the movement of equipment, articles or structures of
unusual size, and the parking of such vehicle would prohibit or
interfere with such use or movement, provided that signs giving notice
of such no parking are erected or placed at least twenty-four (24) hours
prior to the effective time of such no parking.

   H.   Within twenty (20) feet of the approach to any traffic signal,
stop sign or official electronic flashing device.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 1, 9/23/09.]

10.16.040 Handicap Parking.

The City Engineer or his/her designated Traffic Engineer shall designate
parking spaces as handicap parking on public streets, highways or public
parking lots for the exclusive use of vehicles which display a
distinguishing license plate or a placard issued pursuant to California
Vehicle Code Section 22511.5 or 22511.9. The parking space shall be
designated by blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the
street adjacent to the space. In addition to the blue paint, the space
shall also be designated by appropriate signs.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 2, 9/23/09.]

10.16.050 Disabled Person Parking Spaces Loading and Unloading Areas
Designated.

On any street or portion of street, or on any public parking lot or
parking facility, when marked by cross-hatched lines in the area
adjacent to a disabled person parking space, it shall be unlawful for
any person to park or leave standing any vehicle in said area. This
Section shall also apply to any privately owned and maintained
off-street parking facility.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 3, 9/23/09.]

10.16.060 Use of Streets for Storage of Vehicles Prohibited.

No person who owns or has possession, custody or control of any vehicle
shall park such vehicle upon any street or alley for more than a
consecutive period of seventy-two (72) hours.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 4, 9/23/09.]

10.16.070 Washing or Polishing Vehicles

No person shall wash or cause to be washed, polish or cause to be
polished any vehicle or any part thereof upon any public street in this
City when a charge is made for such service.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 5, 9/23/09.]

10.16.080 Parking Adjacent to Schools.

   A.   Authority to Erect Signs. The City Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon that side of any
street adjacent to any school property when such parking would, in his
opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.

   B.   Compliance. When official signs are erected prohibiting parking
upon that side of a street adjacent to any school property, no person
shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 6, 9/23/09.]

10.16.090 Parking Prohibited on Narrow Streets.

   A.   Authority to Erect Signs. The City Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to place signs or markings indicating no parking upon any
street when the width of the roadway does not exceed twenty (20) feet or
upon one (1) side of a street as indicated by such signs or markings
when the width of the roadway does not exceed thirty (30) feet.

   B.   Compliance. When official signs or markings prohibiting parking
are erected upon narrow streets as authorized herein, no person shall
park a vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such sign or
marking.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 7, 9/23/09.]

10.16.100 Parking for Certain Purposes Prohibited.

No person shall park a vehicle upon any highway or right-of-way for the
principal purpose of:

   A.   Displaying such vehicle for sale;

   B.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;

   C.   Using such vehicle to support a sign;

   D.   Vending, except adjacent to the premises of the purchaser when
taking orders or delivering any commodity.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 8, 9/23/09.]

10.16.110 Emergency Parking Signs.

   A.   Authority to Order. Whenever the City Traffic Engineer shall
determine that an emergency traffic congestion is likely to result from
the holding of public or private assemblages, gatherings or functions,
or for other reasons, the City Traffic Engineer shall have power and
authority to order temporary signs to be erected or posted indicating
that the operation, parking or standing of vehicles is prohibited on
such streets and alleys as the City Traffic Engineer shall direct during
the time such temporary signs are in place. Such signs shall remain in
place only during the existence of such emergency, and the City Traffic
Engineer shall cause such signs to be removed promptly thereafter.

   B.   Compliance. When signs authorized by the provisions of this
Section are in place giving notice thereof, no person shall operate,
park or stand any vehicle contrary to the directions and provisions of
such signs.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 9, 9/23/09.]

10.16.120 Parking on City Property.

   A.   Authority to Erect Signs. Whenever the City Manager shall
determine that the orderly, efficient conduct of the City’s business
requires that parking or standing of vehicles on City property be
prohibited, limited or restricted, the City Manager shall have the power
and authority to order signs to be erected or posted indicating that the
parking of vehicles is thus prohibited, limited or restricted.

   B.   Compliance. When signs authorized by the provisions of this
Section are in place, giving notice thereof, no person shall park or
stand any vehicle contrary to the directions or provisions of such
signs.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 10, 9/23/09.]

10.16.130 Police and Fire Vehicles.

The provisions of this Title regulating the movement, parking and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to emergency vehicles of the Police
Department or Sheriff’s Department or of the Fire Department or of a
public utility while the driver of any such vehicle is engaged in the
necessary performance of public emergency duties.

10.16.140 Parking Parallel on One-way Streets.

   A.   When Permitted. Subject to other and more restrictive
limitations, a vehicle may be stopped or parked within eighteen (18)
inches of the left hand curb facing in the direction of traffic movement
upon any one-way street unless signs are in place prohibiting such
stopping or standing.

   B.   When Signs Required for Left Hand Parking. In the event a
highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one (1) direction upon any such roadway, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway
unless signs are in place permitting such standing or parking.

   C.   Prohibited Left Hand Parking. The City Traffic Engineer is
authorized to determine when standing or parking shall be prohibited
upon the left hand side of any one-way street or when standing or
parking may be permitted upon the left hand side of any one-way roadway
of a highway having two (2) or more separate roadways and shall erect
signs giving notice thereof.

   D.   Backing to Curb. The requirement of parallel parking imposed by
this Section shall not apply in the event any commercial vehicle is
actually engaged in the process of loading or unloading freight or
goods, in which case such vehicle may be backed up to the curb, provided
that such vehicle does not extend beyond the centerline of the street
and does not block traffic thereby.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 11, 9/23/09.]

10.16.150 Parking Space Markings.

The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to install and maintain parking
space markings to indicate parking spaces adjacent to curbing where
authorized parking is permitted.

When such parking space markings are placed on the highway, subject to
other and more restrictive limitations, no vehicle shall be stopped,
left standing or parked other than within a single space unless the size
or shape of such vehicle makes compliance impossible.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 12, 9/23/09.]

10.16.160 No Stopping Zones Regulations.

The City Traffic Engineer shall designate established no stopping zones
by placing and maintaining appropriate signs indicating that stopping of
vehicles is prohibited and indicating the hours and days when stopping
is prohibited.

During the hours and on the days designated on the signs, it shall be
unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop said vehicle on any of
the streets or parts of streets established by resolution of the City
Council as no stopping zones.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 13, 9/23/09.]

10.16.170 Fifteen (15) Minute Parking;.

Green curb marking shall mean no standing or parking for a period of
time longer than fifteen (15) minutes at any time between 8:00 a.m. and
6:00 p.m. on any day except Sundays and holidays.

When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been
determined by the City Traffic Engineer to be necessary and are in place
giving notice thereof, no operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand or
park said vehicle adjacent to any such legible curb marking or sign or
parking meter in violation thereof.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 14, 9/23/09.]

10.16.180 Thirty (30) Minute Parking.

When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been
determined by the City Traffic Engineer to be necessary and are in place
giving notice thereof, no operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand or
park said vehicle between the hours of 8:00 a. m. and 6:00 p.m. of any
day except Sundays and holidays for a period of time longer than
thirty (30) minutes.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 15, 9/23/09.]

10.16.190 One (1) Hour Parking.

When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been
determined by the City Traffic Engineer to be necessary and are in place
giving notice thereof, no operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand or
park said vehicle between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any
day except Sundays and holidays for a period of time longer than one (1)
hour.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 16, 9/23/09.]

10.16.200 Two (2) Hour Parking.

When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been
determined by the City Traffic Engineer to be necessary and are in place
giving notice thereof, no operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand or
park said vehicle between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any
day except Sundays and holidays for a period of time longer than two (2)
hours.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 17, 9/23/09.]

10.16.210 Penalty - Continuing Violations.

Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall, upon a
conviction thereof, be guilty of an infraction, and punishable by a fine
as set forth herein, provided further that each period of time a vehicle
is left parked after the initial violation of such provision(s) shall be
deemed a separate offense, equal to the maximum legal parking time for
the particular timed zone or parking space as designated in Sections
setting the maximum legal time.

10.16.220   Fines.

All fines shall be set and amended by ordinance or resolution of the
City Council. All citations are also subject to all County and State
administrative fees, including but not limited to those pursuant to
Government Code §70372(b), Government Code § 76000(b), and Senate Bill
1407.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 18, 9/23/09.]

Chapter 10.18
STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING

Sections:

   10.18.010   Authority to Establish Loading Zones

   10.18.020   Curb Markings for Zones (Exception - Handicap Parking -
Blue Curb)

   10.18.030   Effect of Permission to Load or Unload

   10.18.040   Standing for Loading or Unloading Only

   10.18.050   Standing in Passenger Loading Zone

   10.18.060   Standing in Alley

   10.18.070   Bus Zones

   10.18.080   Fines

10.18.010 Authority to Establish Loading Zones.

   A.   Conditions. The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to
determine and to mark loading zones and passenger loading zones as
follows:

      1.   In front of the entrance to any place of business or in front
of any hall or place used for the purpose of public assembly.

   B.   Maximum Curb Length Usable. In no event shall more than one-half
(1/2) of the total curb length in any block be reserved for loading zone
purposes.

   C.   Yellow Paint. Loading zones shall be indicated by yellow paint
upon the top of all curbs within such zones.

   D.   White Paint. Passenger loading zones shall be indicated by white
paint upon the top of all curbs in said zones.

10.18.020 Curb Markings for Zones (Exception - Handicap Parking - Blue
Curb).

The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized, subject to the
provisions and limitations of this Title, to place, and when required
herein shall place, the following curb markings to indicate parking or
standing regulations, and said curb markings shall have the meanings as
herein set forth.

   A.   Red shall mean no stopping, standing or parking at any time
except as permitted by the Vehicle Code, and except that a bus may stop
in a red zone marked or signed as a bus zone.

   B.   Yellow shall mean no stopping, standing or parking at any time
between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day except Sundays and holidays
for any purpose other than the loading or unloading of passengers or
materials, provided that the loading or unloading of passengers shall
not consume more than three (3) minutes nor the loading or unloading of
materials more than twenty (20) minutes.

   C.   White shall mean no stopping, standing or parking for any
purpose other than loading or unloading of passengers, or for the
purpose of depositing mail in an adjacent mail box, which shall not
exceed three (3) minutes and such restrictions shall apply between 7:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day except Sundays and holidays and except as
follows:

      1.   When such zone is in front of a hotel or in front of a
mailbox, the restrictions shall apply at all times;

      2.   When such zone is in front of a theater, the restrictions
shall apply at all times except when such theater is closed.

   D.   Blue indicates parking limited exclusively to the vehicles of
physically handicapped persons.

   E.   When the City Traffic Engineer as authorized under this Title
has caused curb markings to be placed, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle adjacent to any such legible curb marking in violation of
any of the provisions of this Section.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 19, 9/23/09.]

10.18.030 Effect of Permission to Load or Unload.

   A.   Time Limit. Permission herein granted to stop or stand a vehicle
for purposes of loading or unloading of materials shall apply only to
commercial vehicles and shall not extend beyond the time necessary
therefore, and in no event for more than twenty (20) minutes.

   B.   Materials Included. The loading or unloading of materials shall
apply only to commercial deliveries, also the delivery or pickup of
express and parcel post packages and United States mail.

   C.   Enforcement. Within the total time limits above specified, the
provisions of this Section shall be enforced so as to accommodate
necessary and reasonable loading or unloading but without permitting
abuse of the privileges hereby granted.

10.18.040 Standing for Loading or Unloading Only.

No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any yellow loading zone
for any purpose other than loading or unloading passengers or material
for such time as is permitted in Section 10.20.030.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 20, 9/23/09.]

10.18.050 Standing in Passenger Loading Zone.

No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any passenger loading
zone for any purpose other than the loading or unloading of passengers
for such time as is specified in Section 10.20.030.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 21, 9/23/09.]

10.18.060 Standing in Alley.

No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose other than
loading or unloading of persons or material in any alley except as
designated by the City Traffic Engineer.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 22, 9/23/09.]

10.18.070 Bus Zones.

   A.   Authority to Establish. The City Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to establish bus zones opposite curb space for the loading
and unloading of buses or common carriers of passengers and to determine
the location thereof. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in
any bus zone. Buses, for which these spaces were intended, are exempt.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 23, 9/23/09.]

10.18.080   Fines.

All fines shall be set and amended by ordinance or resolution of the
City Council. All citations are also subject to all County and State
administrative fees, including but not limited to those pursuant to
Government Code § 70372(b), Government Code § 76000(b), and Senate Bill
1407.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 24, 9/23/09.]

Chapter 10.20
PARKING CITATION PROCESSING

Sections:

   10.20.010   Definitions

   10.20.012   Authorization to Contract with Outside Agencies

   10.20.014   Authority to Conduct Administrative Review Process;
Hearing Officer; Procedures

   10.20.016   Procedures for Issuing Citations

   10.20.018   Parking Penalties; Penalties Received by Date Fixed; No
Contest; Request to Contest

   10.20.020   Penalties not Received by Date Fixed

   10.20.022   Notice of Delinquent Violation; Contents

   10.20.024   Copy of Citation Upon Request by Registered
Owner/Recipient

   10.20.026   Affidavit of Nonliability; Leased or Rented Vehicle

   10.20.028   Affidavit of Nonliability; Sale

   10.20.030   Contesting Citation; Procedure

   10.20.032   Collection of Unpaid Penalties

   10.20.034   Obligation of Processing Agency Once Penalty Paid

   10.20.036   Deposit of Penalties with the City

   10.20.038   Filing of Annual Reports

   10.20.040   Fines

10.20.010 Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions provided in
this Section shall govern the construction of this Chapter.

   A.   “Agency” shall mean the “processing agency” as defined below.

   B.   “City” shall at all times refer to the City of Adelanto.

   C.   “Contestant” shall mean any “operator,” “registered owner” or
“owner” and/or “resident” as defined in this Section, who contests a
code enforcement citation.

   D.   “Department” shall mean the Department of Motor Vehicles.

   E.   “Hearing Officer” shall mean any individual selected by the
City, or if the City elects to contract for parking processing services,
that individual selected by the processing agency authorized to
administratively adjudicate code enforcement citation contests.

   F.   “Issuing Agency” shall mean the City or its authorized agent
that issues code enforcement citations.

   G.   “Issuing Officer” shall mean a peace officer as defined in
Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 830) of Title 3 of the California
Penal Code, or the successor statutes thereto, or other issuing officer
(as designated by the City) who is authorized to issue a code
enforcement citation.

   H.   “Operator” shall mean any individual driving and/or in
possession of a vehicle at the time a citation is issued or the
registered owner of the vehicle.

   I.   “Code Enforcement Citation,” hereinafter referred to as
“citation,” shall mean a notice that is personally given or mailed to
the operator, registered owner or owner and/or resident, or attached to
the operator’s vehicle, or owner’s and/or resident’s property, informing
the operator, owner and/or resident, of a parking, equipment and/or
other Vehicle Code or City ordinance violation, and the right to elect
to pay the penalty for the violation or contest the citation.

   J.   “Citation Penalty” includes, but is not limited to, the citation
penalty for the particular violation, as well as late payment penalties,
administrative fees, assessments, costs of collection as provided by law
and other related (including Department) fees.

   K.   “Processing Agency” shall mean the City or its authorized agent
that processes code enforcement citations and issues notices of
delinquent code enforcement violations on behalf of the City.

   L.   “Registered Owner” shall mean the individual or entity whose
name is recorded with the Department of Motor Vehicles as having
ownership of a particular vehicle.

   M.   “Vehicle” shall mean any self-propelled vehicle operated or
suitable for operation on a highway.

   N.   “Violation” shall mean any parking, equipment or other Vehicle
Code or City ordinance violation as established pursuant to State law or
local ordinance.

10.20.012 Authorization to Contract with Outside Agencies.

   A.   The City may issue and/or process code enforcement citations and
notices of delinquent code enforcement violations, or it may enter into
a contract with a private code enforcement citation processing agency,
or with another city, county or other public issuing or processing
agency.

   B.   Any contract entered into pursuant to this Section shall provide
for monthly distribution of amounts collected between the parties,
except amounts payable to the County pursuant to Chapter 12 (commencing
with Section 76000) of Title 8 of the Government Code, or the successor
statutes thereto, and amounts payable to the Department pursuant to
Vehicle Code Section 4763 or the successor statute thereto.

10.20.014 Authority to Conduct Administrative Review Process; Hearing
Officer; Procedures.

The processing agency may review appeals or other objections to a code
enforcement citation pursuant to the procedures set forth in this
Section.

   A.   For a period of twenty-one (21) days from the issuance of the
code enforcement citation or ten (10) days from the mailing of the
notice of a delinquent code enforcement citation, the citation recipient
may request an initial review by the processing agency. The request for
initial review may be made in writing, by telephone or in person.

   B.   The initial review by the processing agency shall consist of
those procedures outlined in this Section.

   C.   In order to contest the citation, the recipient must deposit
with the processing agency the full amount of the penalty on or before
the fifteenth (15th) day following the mailing to that recipient of the
results of the processing agency’s initial review. At the same time, the
recipient must provide a written explanation of the reason or reasons
for contesting the citation on a form provided by the processing agency.
If the recipient is unable to deposit the full amount of the penalty,
he/she must provide verifiable and substantial proof of an inability to
deposit the penalty. Upon presentation of such proof, the processing
agency shall proceed with the contest procedure despite the recipient’s
failure to deposit the full amount of the penalty. If it is ultimately
determined that the recipient is not liable for the violation, then the
full amount of the penalty deposited shall be refunded.

   D.   The contestant may contest the citation either by written
declaration, on forms provided by the processing agency, or by personal
appearance before a hearing examiner.

   E.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection A. of this Section,
if a vehicle has been immobilized or impounded for unpaid parking
citations, the processing agency shall permit the registered owner of
the vehicle to contest the citations upon which the seizure was based,
without requiring a deposit of the penalty, provided that the vehicle
remains under the control of the immobilizing or impounding agency.

10.20.016 Procedures for Issuing Citations.

Citations shall be issued in accordance with the following procedures:

   A.   If a vehicle/property is unattended at the time the citation is
issued for a violation, the issuing officer shall securely attach to the
vehicle and/or property the citation setting forth the violation,
including references to the section of the Vehicle Code, the City’s
Municipal Code/City ordinance(s), or other regulations violated; the
approximate time of the violation; the location of the violation; and
the date by which the recipient is to deposit the penalty or contest the
citation pursuant to Section 10.20.030. The citation shall state the
amount of the penalty and the address of the agent authorized to receive
deposit of the penalty.

   B.   The citation shall also set forth the vehicle license number and
registration expiration date, if such date is visible; the last four (4)
digits of the vehicle identification number, if that number is visible
through the windshield; the color of the vehicle; and, if possible, the
make of the vehicle. For code enforcement citations, the citation shall
also set forth the address of the violation.

   C.   The citation or copy thereof shall be considered a record kept
in the ordinary course of business of the issuing agency and the
processing agency and shall be prima facie evidence of the facts
contained therein.

   D.   Once the citation is prepared and attached to the vehicle and/or
property pursuant to Subsection A. above, the issuing officer shall file
notice of the violation with the processing agency.

   E.   If during issuance of a parking citation, without regard to
whether the vehicle was initially attended or unattended, the vehicle is
driven away prior to attaching the citation to the vehicle, the issuing
officer shall file the notice with the processing agency. The processing
agency shall mail, within fifteen (15) days of issuance of the citation,
a copy of the citation to the registered owner.

   F.   If after a copy of the citation is attached to the vehicle,
property or personally given to the recipient, the issuing agency or the
issuing officer determines that the issuing officer was in error in
issuing the citation, the issuing officer or the issuing agency may
recommend, in writing, that the citation be canceled. The recommendation
shall state the reason or reasons for cancellation and shall be filed
with the processing agency. Under no circumstances shall a personal
relationship with any public official, officer, issuing officer or law
enforcement agent be grounds for cancellation.

   G.   If a processing agency makes a finding that there are grounds
for cancellation as set forth in the City’s administrative policy or
pursuant to any other basis provided by law, then the finding or
findings shall be filed with the processing agency; and the parking
citation shall be canceled pursuant to Subsection A. of
Section 10.20.030.

10.20.018 Parking Penalties; Penalties Received by Date Fixed; No
Contest; Request to Contest.

   A.   Parking penalties shall be established by ordinance or
resolution of the City Council. All penalties received by the processing
agency shall accrue to the benefit of the City.

   B.   If the penalty is received by the processing agency and there is
no contest by the date fixed on the citation, all proceedings as to that
citation shall terminate.

   C.   If the recipient contests the parking citation, the processing
agency shall proceed in accordance with Section 10.20.030.

10.20.020 Penalties not Received by Date Fixed.

   A.   If payment of the penalty is not received by the processing
agency by the date fixed on the citation, the processing agency shall
deliver to the recipient a notice of delinquent violation pursuant to
Section 10.20.022.

   B.   Delivery of a notice of delinquent parking violation may be made
by personal service or by first class mail addressed to the registered
owner of the vehicle as shown on the records of the Department.

10.20.022 Notice of Delinquent Violation; Contents.

   A.   The notice of a delinquent violation shall contain the
information required to be included in a citation pursuant to Section
10.20.016.

   B.   The notice of a delinquent violation shall also contain a notice
to the registered owner, or recipient, that, unless the registered owner
or recipient pays the penalty or contests the citation within ten (10)
days after mailing the notice of a delinquent violation or completes and
files an affidavit of nonliability that complies with Section 10.20.026
or 10.20.028, the vehicle registration shall not be renewed until the
parking penalties have been paid (refers to Vehicle Code violations).

   C.   In addition, the notice of a delinquent violation shall contain,
or be accompanied by, an affidavit of nonliability and information of
what constitutes nonliability, information as to the effect of executing
an affidavit and instructions for returning the affidavit to the issuing
agency.

   D.   If the penalty is paid within ten (10) days after the mailing of
the notice of a delinquent violation, no late penalty or similar fee
shall be charged to the recipient.

10.20.024 Copy of Citation Upon Request by Registered Owner/Recipient.

   A.   Within fifteen (15) days of request, made by mail or in person,
the processing agency shall mail or otherwise provide to the registered
owner, the registered owner’s agent or citation recipient who has
received a notice of a delinquent violation, a copy of the original
citation. The issuing agency may charge a fee sufficient to cover the
actual cost of copying and/or locating the original citation, not to
exceed five dollars ($5.00). Until the processing agency complies with a
request to provide a copy of the citation, the processing agency may not
proceed to immobilize a vehicle in question or initiate further
proceedings.

   B.   If the description of the vehicle/property on the citation does
not substantially match the corresponding information on the
registration card or property listing, the processing agency shall, on
written request of the recipient, cancel the notice of violation.

10.20.026 Affidavit of Nonliability; Leased or Rented Vehicle.

   A.   A registered owner shall be released from liability for a
citation if the registered owner files with the processing agency an
affidavit of nonliability in a form satisfactory to the processing
agency and such form is returned within thirty (30) days after the
mailing of the notice of a delinquent violation together with proof of a
written lease or rental agreement between a bona fide rental or leasing
company and its customer which identifies the renter or lessee and
provides the operator’s driver’s license number, name and address.

   B.   The processing agency shall serve or mail to the renter or
lessee identified in the affidavit of nonliability a notice of a
delinquent violation. The processing agency shall inform the renter or
lessee that he or she must pay the full amount of the fine, or provide
notice to the processing agency that he or she intends to contest the
citation pursuant to Section 10.20.030, within fifteen (15) days of the
mailing of the notice of a delinquent violation. If the processing
agency does not receive payment of the citation or does not receive
notice of intent to contest within fifteen (15) days, the processing
agency may proceed against the renter or lessee pursuant to
Section 10.20.032.

10.20.028 Affidavit of Nonliability; Sale.

   A.   A registered owner of a vehicle shall be released from liability
for a citation issued to that vehicle if the registered owner served
with a notice of a delinquent violation files with the processing
agency, within thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice of a delinquent
violation, an affidavit of nonliability together with proof that the
registered owner served with a notice of a parking violation has made a
bona fide sale or transfer of the vehicle and has delivered possession
thereof to the purchaser prior to the date of the alleged violation. The
processing agency shall obtain verification from the Department that the
former owner has complied with the requirements necessary to release the
former owner from liability pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 5602 or the
successor statute thereto.

   B.   If the registered owner has complied with Vehicle Code Section
5602 or the successor statute thereto, the processing agency shall
cancel the notice of a delinquent violation with respect to the
registered owner.

   C.   If the registered owner has not complied with the requirements
necessary to release the owner from liability pursuant to Vehicle Code
Section 5602 or the successor statute thereto, the processing agency
shall inform the registered owner that the citation must be paid in full
or contested pursuant to Section 10.20.030. If the registered owner does
not comply, the processing agency shall proceed pursuant to Section
10.20.032.

10.20.030 Contesting Citation; Procedure.

   A.   If an operator or registered owner, owner and/or resident
contests a citation or a notice of a delinquent violation, the
processing agency shall do all of the following:

      1.   First, either investigate with its own records and staff or
request that the issuing agency investigate the circumstances of the
citation with respect to the contestant’s written explanation of the
reason or reasons for contesting the citation.

      2.   If, based on the results of that investigation, the
processing agency is satisfied that the violation did not occur, or the
registered owner, owner and/or resident was not responsible for the
violation by virtue of having sold, rented or leased the
vehicle/property, or because legally supportable or mitigating
circumstances as set forth in the City’s administrative policy warrant a
dismissal, the processing agency shall cancel the citation and make an
adequate record of the reason or reasons for canceling the citation. The
processing agency shall mail the results of the investigation by first
class mail to the contestant within ten (10) days of the decision.

      3.   If the contestant is not satisfied with the results of the
investigation provided for in Subsections 1. and 2. of this Section, the
contestant may, within fifteen (15) days of the mailing of the results
of the initial investigation, deposit the amount of the penalty and
other related fees or provide proof of an inability to deposit the
penalty and request an administrative review.

      4.   If the contestant prevails at the administrative hearing,
then the full amount of the penalty deposited shall be refunded.

   B.   The administrative review procedure shall consist of the
following:

      1.   The contestant shall make a written request for
administrative review on a form and in a manner satisfactory to the
processing agency and may request to contest the citation either in
person or by written declaration.

      2.   If the contestant is a minor, that person shall be permitted
to appear at a hearing or admit responsibility for a citation without
the necessity of the appointment of a guardian. The processing agency
may proceed against the minor in the same manner as if the minor were an
adult.

      3.   The administrative review shall be conducted before an
examiner designated to conduct the review by the City Council or by the
processing agency.

   C.   The issuing officer shall not be required to participate in an
administrative review. The issuing agency shall not be required to
produce any evidence other than the citation or copy thereof and
information received from the Department or City identifying the
registered owner of the vehicle or the owner and/or resident of the
property. The documentation in proper form shall be considered prima
facie evidence of the violation.

   D.   The processing agency’s final decision shall be in writing and
delivered personally to the contestant or the contestant’s agent or
delivered by first class mail within ten (10) working days following the
hearing.

   E.   If the contestant is not the registered owner of the vehicle,
owner and/or resident of the property, all notices to the contestant
required under this Section shall also be given to the registered owner
or owner and/or resident by first class mail.

10.20.032 Collection of Unpaid Penalties.

Except as otherwise provided below, the processing agency shall proceed
under Subsection A. or B., but not both, in order to collect an unpaid
penalty:

   A.   File an itemization of unpaid parking penalties and other
related fees with the Department for collection pursuant to Vehicle Code
Section 4760 or the successor statute thereto.

   B.   If more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) in unpaid parking
penalties, or other penalties, and other related fees have been accrued
by any one (1) registered owner or the registered owner’s renter, lessee
or sales transferee, owner and/or resident, proof thereof may be filed
with the court, which has the same effect as a civil judgment. Execution
may be levied and such other measures may be taken for the collection of
the judgment as are authorized for the collection of unpaid civil
judgments entered against a defendant in an action against a debtor.

   C.   The processing agency shall send notice by first class mail to
the registered owner or renter, lessee, or sales transferee, owner
and/or resident indicating that a civil judgment has been filed and the
date that the judgment shall become effective. The notice shall also
indicate the time that execution may be levied against the person’s
assets, that liens may be placed against that person’s property, that
the person’s wages may be garnished, and that other steps may be taken
to satisfy the judgment. The notice shall also state that the processing
agency will terminate the commencement of a civil judgment proceeding if
all penalties and other related fees are paid prior to the date set for
hearing. If judgment is entered, then the City may file a writ of
execution or an abstract with the court clerk’s office identifying the
means by which the civil judgment is to be satisfied.

   D.   If a judgment is rendered for the processing agency, that agency
may contract with a collection agency licensed pursuant to Chapter 8
(commencing with Section 6850) of Division 3 of the Business and
Professions Code, or the successor statutes thereto, to collect the
judgment.

   E.   If required by law, the processing agency shall pay the
established first paper civil filing fee at the time an entry of civil
judgment is requested.

   F.   If the registration of the vehicle has not been renewed for
sixty (60) days beyond the renewal date (for Vehicle Code violations)
and the citation has not been collected by the Department pursuant to
Vehicle Code Section 4760, or the successor statute thereto, then the
processing agency may file a proof of unpaid penalties and fees with the
court which has the same effect as a civil judgment as provided above in
Subsection B.

   G.   The processing agency shall not file a civil judgment with the
court relating to a citation filed with the Department unless the
processing agency has determined that the registration of the vehicle
has not been renewed for sixty (60) days beyond the renewal date, and
the citation has not been collected by the Department pursuant to
Vehicle Code Section 4760 or the successor statute thereto.

10.20.034 Obligation of Processing Agency Once Penalty Paid.

   A.   If the operator or registered owner, owner and/or resident
served with a notice of a delinquent violation, or any other person who
presents the citation or notice of a delinquent violation, deposits the
penalty with the person authorized to receive it, the processing agency
shall do both of the following:

      1.   Upon request, provide the operator, registered owner, or the
registered owner’s agent, owner and/or resident with a copy of the
citation information presented in the notice of a delinquent violation.
The processing agency shall, in turn, obtain and record in its records
the name, address and driver’s license number of the person actually
given the copy of the citation information.

      2.   Determine whether the notice of a delinquent violation has
been filed with the Department or a civil judgment has been entered
pursuant to Section 10.20.032.

   B.   If the processing agency receives full payment of all penalties
and other related fees and the processing agency has neither filed a
notice of a delinquent violation or entered a civil judgment, then all
proceedings for that citation shall cease.

   C.   If the notice of a delinquent violation has been filed with the
Department and has been returned by the Department pursuant to the
provisions of the Vehicle Code and payment of the parking penalty has
been made, along with any other related fees, then the proceedings for
that citation shall cease.

   D.   If the notice of a delinquent violation has been filed with the
Department and has not been returned by the Department and payment of
the penalty along with any other fees applied by either, the Department
or the processing agency shall do all of the following:

      1.   Deliver a certificate of payment to the operator or other
person making payment;

      2.   Within five (5) working days, transmit payment information to
the Department in the manner prescribed by the Department;

      3.   Terminate proceedings on the notice of a delinquent
violation; and

      4.   Deposit all penalties and other fees as required by law.

10.20.036 Deposit of Penalties with the City.

   A.   All penalties collected, including process service fees and
costs related to civil debt collection, shall be deposited to the
account of the processing agency, and then remitted to the City, if the
City is not also the processing agency.

   B.   If the City is not the processing agency, then the City shall
enter into an agreement with the processing agency for periodic transfer
of citation receipts, along with a report setting forth the number of
cases processed and the sums received.

10.20.038 Filing of Annual Reports.

The processing agency shall prepare an audited report at the end of each
fiscal year setting forth the number of cases processed and all sums
received and distributed, together with any other information that may
be specified by the City or its authorized issuing agency or the State
Controller. The report is a public record and shall be delivered to the
City and its authorized issuing agency.

[Ord. No. 321, 10/8/96.]

10.20.040   Fines.

All fines in this Title 10 shall be set and amended by ordinance or
resolution of the City Council. All citations are also subject to all
County and State administrative fees, including but not limited to those
pursuant to Government Code § 70372(b), Government Code § 76000(b), and
Senate Bill 1407.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 25, 9/23/09.]

Chapter 10.22
RESTRICTED USE OF STREETS

Sections:

   10.22.010   Prohibited Vehicles

   10.22.020   Truck Routes - Regulations

   10.22.030   Truck Routes - Designated

   10.22.040   Oversized Vehicle Parking Regulations

   10.22.050   Streets in Which Commercial Vehicles are Prohibited
Designated

   10.22.060   Visibility Obstructions

   10.22.070   No Parking of Commercial Vehicles

10.22.010 Prohibited Vehicles.

   A.   Advertising Vehicles. No person shall operate or drive any
vehicle used for advertising purposes or any advertising vehicle
equipped with a sound amplifying or loudspeaking device upon any street
or alley at any time without the express consent of the Chief of Police.

10.22.020 Truck Routes - Regulations.

   A.   Authority to Erect Signs. Whenever any resolution of this City
designates and describes any street or portion thereof as a street, the
use of which is permitted by any vehicle exceeding a maximum gross
weight limit of three (3) tons, the City Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to designate such street or streets by appropriate signs as
truck routes for the movement of vehicles exceeding a maximum gross
weight limit of three (3) tons.

   B.   Use. When any such truck route or routes are established and
designated by appropriate signs, the operator of any vehicle exceeding a
maximum gross weight limit of three (3) tons shall drive on such route
or routes, and none other except that nothing in this Section shall
prohibit the operator of any vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight of
three (3) tons coming from a truck route having ingress and egress by
direct route to and from restricted streets when necessary for the
purpose of making pickups or deliveries of goods, wares and merchandise
from or to any building or structure located on such restricted streets
or for the purpose of delivering materials to be used in the actual and
bona fide repair, alteration, remodeling or construction of any building
or structure upon such restricted streets for which a building permit
has previously been obtained therefor.

   C.   Application. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to:

      1.   Passenger buses under the jurisdiction of the Public
Utilities Commission; or

      2.   Any vehicle owned by a public utility while necessarily in
use in the construction, installation or repair of any public utility.

   D.   Maximum Weight. Those streets and parts of streets established
by resolution of the City Council are hereby declared to be truck routes
for the movement of vehicles exceeding a maximum gross weight of three
(3) tons.

10.22.030 Truck Routes - Designated.

The streets or portions of streets in this City hereinafter described
are hereby defined and established as truck routes and shall be governed
by the provisions of Section 10.22.020.

   A.   PALMDALE ROAD (Highway 18) in its entirety within the City
limits.

   B.   STATE HIGHWAY 395 in its entirety within the City limits.

   C.   RANCHO ROAD in its entirety within the City limits.

   D.   KOALA ROAD in its entirety within the City limits.

   E.   AIR EXPRESSWAY ROAD in its entirety within the City limits.

   F.   ADELANTO ROAD from Air Expressway to Highway 395.

   G.   All roads within established industrial parks.

   H.   All roads providing direct access to established businesses in
manufacturing industrial zoned properties.

10.22.040 Oversized Vehicle Parking Regulations.

   A.   Prohibition. No person shall park or leave standing upon any
public street or highway in a residential district:

      1.   Any motor vehicle over twenty-five (25) feet long measured
from the extreme forward point to the extreme rear point, including
extensions;

      2.   Any motor vehicle, over ninety-six (96) inches wide, measured
at its widest point, excluding side-view mirrors or similar extensions,
designed, used or maintained for the transportation of property;

      3.   Any motor vehicle, including buses, motor trucks, trailers,
semi-trailers, trailer coaches or truck tractors as defined in the
California Vehicle Code, over ninety-six (96) inches wide, measured at
its widest point excluding side-view mirrors or similar extensions,
designed, used or maintained for the transportation of property;

      4.   Any motor vehicle which is designed, used or maintained as
farm machinery or a special purpose or equipment machine; or

      5.   Any non-motorized vehicle, such as a semi-trailer, trailer,
trailer coach, utility trailer, two (2) or more axle camper, or a one
(1) axle camper, which has been detached from its drawing vehicle for a
period not to exceed twenty-four (24) hours.

   B.   Exceptions. Subsection A. shall not apply to the following:

      1.   Any oversized recreational motor vehicle, as defined by
California Health and Safety Code Section 18010 or any amendments
thereto, while parked or standing for the purpose of loading or
unloading passengers or property for a period not to exceed
twenty-four (24) hours;

      2.   Any oversized motor vehicle parked while used in performing
or assisting in performing services or repairs on residential property;

      3.   Any oversized motor vehicle which is parked for not more than
twenty-four (24) consecutive hours to make emergency repairs to such
vehicle; and

      4.   Any non-motorized vehicle, such as a semi-trailer, trailer,
trailer coach, utility trailer, two (2) or more axle camper or a one (1)
axle camper which has been detached from is drawing vehicle parked for a
period not to exceed four (4) hours in any area other than a residential
district.

   C.   Arterial Highway Oversize Vehicle Parking Regulations.

      1.   Except as provided in Subsections B. and C. hereof, no person
shall park or leave standing upon any arterial highway between the hours
of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., or for longer than two (2) hours at any
other time, any motor vehicle over eighty-four (84) inches high,
measured from the surface of the roadway to its highest point, or over
eighty-four (84) inches wide, measured from its widest point, excluding
side-view mirrors or similar extensions on any designated arterial
highway of the City.

      2.   In case of emergency, oversize vehicles shall be removed
immediately if between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; otherwise,
they may park on the designated arterial highways provided that such
vehicles shall be removed within four (4) hours. Emergency parking is
defined to mean any vehicle left standing at the roadside because of
mechanical breakdown or because of driver’s physical incapacity to
proceed.

      3.   Notwithstanding the prohibition contained in this Section,
wherever highway markings clearly indicate legal on-street parking in
front of residential property facing any designated arterial highway, an
oversized vehicle may park or stand in front of such residential
property for not more than eight (8) consecutive hours to load or unload
passengers or property or to furnish commercial services or repairs to
the premises.

10.22.050 Streets in Which Commercial Vehicles are Prohibited
Designated.

TO BE DETERMINED

10.22.060 Visibility Obstructions.

Whenever the City Traffic Engineer finds that any hedge, shrubbery or
tree growing in a parkway or any vehicle parked along the curb,
obstructs the view of any intersection, or any traffic upon the streets
approaching such intersection, he shall cause the hedge, shrubbery or
tree to be immediately removed or reduced in height, or, if the
visibility obstruction is due to a parked vehicle, the curb adjacent to
the intersection to be painted red or signed “no parking.”

10.22.070 No Parking of Commercial Vehicles.

   A.   The parking of commercial vehicles with a maximum gross weight
over ten thousand (10,000) pounds is prohibited in a designated R-1 zone
or upon any public street or highway which is not posted as a truck
route in the City, or private or public property or public right-of-way,
except while unloading or loading property, or which such vehicle is
parking in connection with, and in aid of, the performance of a service
to or on a property in the block in which such vehicle is parked.

   B.   The City Traffic Engineer shall review requests for parking
restrictions of commercial vehicles with a maximum gross weight over ten
thousand (10,000) pounds on streets or portions of streets and shall
present to the City Council those locations in which, in his opinion,
the parking of commercial vehicles with a maximum gross weight over ten
thousand (10,000) pounds would interfere with traffic, reduce sight
distances of approaching traffic from cross streets and driveways, or
create a hazardous situation.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 26, 9/23/09.]

Chapter 10.24
SPECIAL SPEED ZONES

Sections:

   10.24.010   Authority to Increase Twenty-five (25) Miles per Hour
Limit

   10.24.020   Authority to Decrease Sixty-five (65) Miles per Hour
Limit

   10.24.030   Authority to Link Speed Limit Districts

   10.24.040   Speed Limits Declared

   10.24.050   Regulation of Speed by Traffic Signals

10.24.010 Authority to Increase Twenty-five (25) Miles per Hour Limit.

   A.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council
determines, upon the basis of an engineering and traffic survey, that a
greater speed would facilitate the orderly movement of vehicular traffic
and would be safe upon any street otherwise subject to a prima facie
limit of twenty-five (25) miles per hour under the Vehicle Code, the
City Council shall determine and declare a higher prima facie speed
limit. When such determination has been made, the City Council shall by
resolution direct the City Engineer to erect and maintain signs upon
such street as provided in the Vehicle Code indicating file appropriate
prima facie speed limit. Such signs may be supplemented by appropriate
pavement markings.

   B.   Removal. Whenever the City Council, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, finds that the conditions for which a speed
limit has been determined as provided in Subsection A. of this Section
no longer exist, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City
Engineer to remove such signs and markings from such street.

10.24.020 Authority to Decrease Sixty-five (65) Miles per Hour Limit.

   A.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council
determines, upon the basis of an engineering and traffic survey, that
the limit of sixty-five (65) miles per hour is more than is reasonable
or safe upon any street or highway where such limit of sixty-five (65)
miles per hour is applicable under the Vehicle Code, the City Council
shall determine and declare a lower prima facie limit which is
appropriate to facilitate the orderly movement of traffic and is
reasonable and safe. When such determination has been made, the City
Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to erect and
maintain signs upon such street or highway as provided in the Vehicle
Code indicating the appropriate speed limit. Such signs may be
supplemented by appropriate pavement markings.

   B.   Removal. Whenever the City Council, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, finds that the conditions for which a speed
limit has been determined as provided in Subsection A. of this Section
no longer exists, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City
Engineer to remove such signs and pavement markings from such street or
highway.

10.24.030 Authority to Link Speed Limit Districts.

   A.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council
determines, upon the basis of an engineering and traffic survey, that
the limit of sixty-five (65) miles per hour is more than is reasonable
or safe upon any portion of a street or highway for a distance of not
exceeding two thousand (2,000) feet in length between either business or
residential districts, the City Council may determine and declare a
reasonable and safe prima facie limit thereon lower than sixty-five (65)
miles per hour, but not less than twenty-five (25) miles per hour. When
such determination has been made, the City Council shall by resolution
direct the City Engineer to erect and maintain signs thereon as provided
in the Vehicle Code. Such signs may be supplemented by appropriate
pavement markings.

   B.   Removal. Whenever the City Council finds, upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic survey, that the conditions for which a prima
facie limit lower than sixty-five (65) miles per hour has been
determined as provided in Subsection A. of this Section no longer exist,
it shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to remove such signs and
markings from such portion of street or highway.

10.24.040 Speed Limits Declared.

Pursuant to the “Speed Zoning Engineering & Traffic Survey” report dated
February 8, 2022, and pursuant to California Vehicle Code Sections 627,
22357 and 22358, the City Council of the City of Adelanto determines
that the maximum speed limits for the following streets, along their
entire length unless noted otherwise, in the City of Adelanto are
reasonable and safe and established as follows:

  ------------- ------ ---- -------------------------------
  Street Name   From   To   Recommended Speed Limit (mph)
  ------------- ------ ---- -------------------------------

  ------------------- ------------------- ------------------- -------------------------------
  Street Name         From                To                  Recommended Speed Limit (mph)
  Adelanto Road       Holly Road          Rancho Road         55
  Adelanto Road       Rancho Road         Air Expressway      45
  Adelanto Road       Air Expressway      Bartlett Avenue     45
  Adelanto Road       Bartlett Avenue     Chamberlaine Way    35
  Air Expressway      Adelanto Road       Pearmain Street     45
  Air Expressway      Pearmain Street     Highway 395         45
  Air Expressway      Highway 395         Bellflower Street   40
  Air Expressway      Bellflower Street   Aster Road          50
  Air Expressway      Aster Road          Raccoon Avenue      50
  Aster Road          Palmdale Road       Seneca Road         30
  Aster Road          Seneca Road         Victor Street       40
  Aster Road          Victor Street       Mojave Street       40
  Aster Road          Air Expressway      Bartlett Avenue     40
  Bartlett Avenue     Adelanto Road       Pearmain Street     35
  Bartlett Avenue     Pearmain Street     Highway 395         35
  Bartlett Avenue     Highway 395         Bellflower Street   40
  Bartlett Avenue     Bellflower Street   Aster Road          40
  Bellflower Street   Palmdale Road       Seneca Road         40
  Bellflower Street   Seneca Road         Victor Street       40
  Bellflower Street   Victor Street       Mojave Street       40
  Bellflower Street   Mojave Street       Rancho Road         45
  Bellflower Street   Rancho Road         Air Expressway      50
  Bellflower Street   Air Expressway      Bartlett Avenue     35
  Bellflower Street   Bartlett Avenue     Chamberlaine Way    35
  Bellflower Street   Chamberlaine Way    Auburn Avenue       35
  Cactus Road         Highway 395         Jonathon Road       35
  Chamberlaine Way    Pearmain Street     Jonathon Road       30
  Chamberlaine Way    Jonathon Road       Highway 395         30
  Chamberlaine Way    Highway 395         Bellflower Street   30
  Chamberlaine Way    Bellflower Street   Verbena Road        35
  Chamberlaine Way    Verbena Road        Aster Road          35
  Chamberlaine Way    Aster Road          Koala Road          40
  El Mirage Road      Muskrat Avenue      Koala Road          50
  El Mirage Road      Koala Road          City Limit Line     55
  Emerald Road        Rancho Road         Air Expressway      30
  Jonathon Road       Begonia Road        Seneca Road         40
  Jonathon Road       Seneca Road         Victor Street       40
  Jonathon Road       Victor Street       Mojave Street       40
  Jonathon Road       Mojave Street       Cactus Road         45
  Jonathon Road       Air Expressway      Bartlett Avenue     30
  Jonathon Road       Bartlett Avenue     Chamberlaine Way    30
  Koala Road          Holly Road          Rancho Road         45
  Koala Road          Rancho Road         Yucca Road          45
  Koala Road          Yucca Road          Air Expressway      55
  Koala Road          Air Expressway      Chamberlaine Way    55
  Koala Road          Chamberlaine Way    El Mirage Road      55
  Mojave Street       Highway 395         Jonathon Road       40
  Mojave Street       Jonathon Road       Bellflower Street   40
  Mojave Street       Bellflower Street   Verbena Road        40
  Mojave Street       Verbena Road        Aster Road          40
  Pearmain Street     Palmdale Road       Seneca Road         25
  Pearmain Street     Air Expressway      Bartlett Avenue     35
  Rancho Road         Emerald Road        Adelanto Road       45
  Rancho Road         Adelanto Road       Highway 395         40
  Rancho Road         Highway 395         Bellflower Street   55
  Rancho Road         Bellflower Street   Daisy Road          55
  Rancho Road         Daisy Road          Raccoon Avenue      45
  Rancho Road         Raccoon Avenue      Koala Road          45
  Seneca Road         Highway 395         Jonathon Road       35
  Seneca Road         Jonathon Road       Bellflower Street   45
  Seneca Road         Bellflower Street   Verbena Road        45
  Seneca Road         Verbena Road        Aster Road          45
  Verbena Road        Palmdale Road       Seneca Road         45
  Verbena Road        Seneca Road         Victor Street       45
  Verbena Road        Victor Street       Mojave Street       45
  Victor Street       Jonathon Road       Bellflower Street   40
  Victor Street       Bellflower Street   Verbena Road        40
  Victor Street       Verbena Road        Aster Road          40
                                                              
  ------------------- ------------------- ------------------- -------------------------------

[Ord. No. 479, Section 1.02, 6/25/08; Ord. No. 630, Section 2, 5/25/22.]

10.24.050 Regulation of Speed by Traffic Signals.

The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to regulate the timing of
traffic signals so as to permit the movement of traffic in an orderly
and safe manner at speeds slightly at variance from the speeds otherwise
applicable within the district or at intersections and shall erect
appropriate signs giving notice thereof.

Chapter 10.26
AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH, AMEND TRAFFIC SCHEDULES/FINES

Section:

   10.26.010   Authority to Establish, Amend Traffic Schedules/Fines

   10.26.020   Fines

10.26.010 Authority to Establish, Amend Traffic Schedules/Fines.

The City Council shall establish and may amend by ordinance or
resolution the following traffic schedules/fines:

   A.   U-turns.

   A.   Through streets.

   B.   Stop intersections.

   C.   Railroad stops.

   D.   No parking zones.

   E.   Overnight parking.

   F.   Parking.

   G.   Time parking zones.

   H.   Truck routes.

   I.   Noncommercial routes.

   J.   One-way streets.

   K.   Yield intersections.

   L.   Speed zones.

All traffic schedules of the City, and related fines, are on file in the
office of the City Clerk.

10.26.020   Fines.

All fines in this Title 10 shall be set and amended by ordinance or
resolution of the City Council. All citations are also subject to all
County and State administrative fees, including but not limited to those
pursuant to Government Code § 70372(b), Government Code § 76000(b), and
Senate Bill 1407.

[Ord. No. 491, Section 27, 9/23/09.]

Chapter 10.28
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS

Sections:

   10.28.010   Scope

   10.28.020   Exemption of Certain Vehicles

   10.28.030   Traffic Control Devices

   10.28.040   Turning Movements

   10.28.050   One-way Streets

   10.28.060   Closing of Streets

   10.28.070   Through Highways

   10.28.080   Weight Limitations

   10.28.090   Weight Limits on Bridges

   10.28.100   Driving through Funeral Processions

   10.28.110   Driving on New Pavement Prohibited

   10.28.120   Driving on Limited Access Roadway Prohibited

   10.28.130   Tampering with Traffic Survey Devices

   10.28.140   Unauthorized Painting of Curbs

10.28.010 Scope.

The provisions of this Title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States Government, the
State or any county or city. It is unlawful for any driver to violate
any of the provisions of this Title except as otherwise permitted in
this Title or by State statute.

10.28.020 Exemption of Certain Vehicles.

   A.   The provisions of this Title regulating the operation, parking
and standing of vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle that has
qualified under the Vehicle Code as an authorized emergency vehicle,
when any such vehicle is operated in the manner specified in the Vehicle
Code in response to an emergency call.

   B.   The foregoing exemption shall not, however, protect the driver
of any such vehicle from the consequences of his willful disregard of
the safety of others.

   C.   The provisions of this Title regulating parking or standing of
vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle of the City or of the State
Department of Transportation, while necessarily in use for the
construction, repair work, survey work or traffic engineering
investigations on any highway or any vehicle owned by the United States
while in use for the collection, transportation or delivery of the
United States mail.

10.28.030 Traffic Control Devices.

   A.   Signs. The City Engineer shall determine and designate the size,
shape and character of all official warning, regulatory and direction
signs, other than signs the size, shape and character of which have been
established by the State Department of Transportation pursuant to the
Vehicle Code.

      1.   Violation. No provision of this Title for which signs are
required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator thereof, unless
appropriate signs are in place and sufficiently legible to be seen by an
ordinarily observant person, giving notice of such provision.

   B.   Authorization and Placing of Signals.

      1.   The City Council shall by resolution designate, upon the
basis of a traffic engineering investigation, what intersections shall
be controlled by official traffic control signals.

      2.   Whenever the City Council finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions, for which traffic
control signals have been placed at an intersection pursuant to
Subsection B.1. of this Section no longer exist, the City Council shall
by resolution direct that such traffic control signals be removed.

      3.   The City Engineer is authorized to place, maintain, operate
or remove, or cause to be placed, maintained, operated or removed, all
official traffic control signals authorized by the City Council as
herein provided. Such official traffic signals shall conform to the
provisions of the Vehicle Code.

   C.   Hours of Operation. The City Engineer is authorized to
determine, upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, the
hours and days during which any traffic control device shall be in
operation or be in effect, except in those cases where such hours or
days are specified in this Title or established by resolution of the
City Council.

   D.   Installation by City Engineer.

      1.   The City Engineer may place and maintain such traffic control
devices in addition to those authorized by other provisions of this
Title as may be necessary to regulate, guide or warn traffic; but the
City Engineer shall make such determination upon the basis of traffic
engineering principles and traffic investigations and in accordance with
such standards, limitations and rules as may be established by ordinance
or resolution of the City Council.

      2.   Whenever the City Engineer finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions, for which such traffic
control devices have been installed as provided in Subsection D.1. of
this Section no longer exist, the City Engineer shall remove such
traffic control devices.

   E.   Traffic Markings.

      1.   The City Engineer is authorized to place, upon the basis of a
traffic engineering investigation, traffic guide lines, dividing
highways into the number of traffic lanes that are proper and necessary,
and may place such other pavement markings as are necessary to direct
vehicular movements in accordance with requirements of this Title and
the Vehicle Code.

      2.   Whenever the City Engineer finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions for which traffic guide
lines or other markings were placed as provided in Subsection E.1. of
this Section no longer exist, the City Engineer shall remove such
traffic guide lines or such markings.

   F.   Temporary Removal. Whenever, because of the construction,
alteration, repair or improvement of any highway, or because of other
emergency, compliance with any prohibition of this Title, including a
prohibition pursuant to any action of the City Council taken in
accordance with this Title, will create a traffic hazard and the City
Engineer so finds, he is authorized to either remove or cover up any
traffic control device which informs persons of such prohibition. While
such traffic control device is removed or covered, the effect of such
prohibition is suspended. At the end of such emergency, unless otherwise
determined by the City Council, the City Engineer shall replace or
uncover such traffic control device.

10.28.040 Turning Movements.

   A.   Restricted Turn Signals.

      1.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council
determines, upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, that
the prohibition of the making of any turning movement by any vehicle at
any intersection or between any designated intersections is necessary,
the City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to erect
any appropriate sign or signs stating the prohibition of such turning
movements. The sign or signs may be supplemented by appropriate pavement
markings.

      2.   Whenever the City Council finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions for which such turning
movements at such intersections or between such intersections has been
prohibited as provided in Subsection A.1. of this Section no longer
exist, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to
remove such sign or signs and pavement markings.

   B.   Turn Markers and Multiple Lanes.

      1.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, the City Council authorizes the
City Engineer, upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, to
place markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections and
thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified
in the Vehicle Code be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection
or may allocate and indicate more than one (1) lane of traffic from
which drivers of vehicles may make right- or left-hand turns.

      2.   Whenever the City Engineer finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that any turning movement within or adjacent
to any intersection which has been required by the placing of markers,
buttons or signs as provided in Subsection B.1. of this Section is no
longer necessary, the City Engineer shall remove such markers, buttons
or signs.

10.28.050 One-way Streets.

Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council determines, upon
the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, that it is necessary
to designate particular highways or portions thereof as one-way highways
and require that all vehicles thereon move in one (1) specified
direction, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer
to erect appropriate signs indicating the direction of travel at each
highway intersecting such one-way highway upon such particular highway
or portion thereof.

   A.   Whenever the City Council finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions, for which such highway
or portions thereof has been designated as a one-way highway as provided
in Subsection A. of this Section no longer exist, the City Council shall
by resolution direct the City Engineer to remove such signs from such
one-way highway.

10.28.060 Closing of Streets.

   A.   Streets Dividing School Property. Pursuant to the Vehicle Code,
whenever the City Council determines on the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation that it is necessary to close a street that
divides school grounds to vehicular traffic, the City Council shall by
resolution direct the City Engineer to place appropriate signs
indicating such closure.

   B.   Hours, Days and Conditions. Whenever the City Council, pursuant
to Section 10.28.050 of this Chapter, orders the closing of streets, the
City Engineer shall, on the basis of traffic engineering investigation,
determine the hours of the day, the days of the week and the conditions
under which such streets shall be closed.

10.28.070 Through Highways.

   A.   Establishment. Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, the City Council
may determine, upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, by
resolution that it is necessary to: (1) designate any highway as a
through highway and to require that all vehicles stop before entering or
crossing the same; (2) designate any intersection as a stop intersection
and to require all vehicles to stop at one (1) or more entrances to such
intersections; (3) control traffic within an intersection and require it
to stop, when signs are erected as provided by the Vehicle Code.

   B.   Railroad Stop Signs. Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, the City
Council may determine, upon the basis of a traffic engineering
investigation, by resolution that all vehicles shall stop before
entering or crossing the tracks at any highway railroad grade crossing
when signs are in place giving notice thereof, but no such ordinance
shall be effective unless approved by an order of the Public Utilities
Commission of the State.

   C.   Stop Signs. When the City Council has adopted resolutions
pursuant to Subsections A. and B. of this Section, the City Engineer
shall erect a stop sign on each and every street intersecting such
through street or portion thereof so designated and at those entrances
to or locations within other intersections where a stop is required and
at any railroad grade crossing so designated. Every such sign shall
conform with and shall be placed as provided in the Vehicle Code. Such
signs may be supplemented by appropriate pavement markings.

      1.   Removal. Whenever the City Council finds, on the basis of a
traffic engineering investigation, that the conditions for which such
highways have been designated as through highways or such intersection
has been designated as a stop intersection or such location within an
intersection has been designated where vehicles are required to stop, or
such highway railroad grade crossing has been designated at which
vehicles are required to stop before entering or crossing the tracks, as
provided in Subsections A. and B. of this Section, no longer exist, the
City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to remove such
signs and pavement markings from such intersections or railroad grade
crossings.

   D.   Emergency Stop Signs. The City Engineer is authorized when any
emergency condition, as indicated by a traffic engineering
investigation, exists at any highway intersection or intersections, to
place and maintain stop signs as provided in Subsection C. of this
Section for the duration of such emergency condition. Such stop signs
shall be removed when such emergency condition ceases to exist unless
otherwise determined by the City Council.

      1.   Removal. The City Engineer is authorized, when because of
temporary detours or other emergency, it would be impractical and a
hazard to require vehicles to stop at an intersection where stop signs
have been erected pursuant to this Chapter, to either remove such signs
or so cover them that no portion of the word “stop” remains visible. At
the termination of such emergency, the City Engineer shall restore such
signs or uncover such signs unless otherwise determined restore such
signs or uncover such signs unless otherwise determined by the City
Council.

   E.   Obedience to Stop Signs. Where stop signs have been erected
pursuant to this Chapter, any vehicle approaching such signs shall stop
in accordance with the provisions of the Vehicle Code except that no
stop is required where:

      1.   An officer is on duty and directs traffic to proceed;

      2.   A traffic signal is in operation and indicates that traffic
may proceed;

      3.   A stop sign has been removed or covered pursuant to
Subsection D.1. of this Section.

   F.   Yield-Right-of-Way Signs.

      1.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council
determines, upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, that
it is necessary to require vehicles entering an intersection at one (1)
or more of its approaches to slow and yield the right-of-way as provided
in the Vehicle Code, the City Council shall by resolution direct the
City Engineer to erect and maintain “yield-right-of-way” signs on such
approaches.

      2.   Whenever the City Council determines, upon the basis of a
traffic engineering investigation, that the conditions for which the
“yield right-of-way” signs were erected as provided in Subsection F.1.
of this Section no longer exist, the City Council shall by resolution
direct the City Engineer to remove such signs.

10.28.080 Weight Limitations.

   A.   Limits on Unimproved Highways.

      1.   Whenever the City Council determines, upon the basis of an
engineering investigation, that a highway is unimproved as the word
“unimproved” is used in the Vehicle Code and that the nature of the
pavement or surface is such that it will be damaged if vehicles of over
a certain gross weight are permitted to operate thereon, the City
Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to erect signs
specifying the maximum gross weight limits which shall be permitted to
operate on such highway.

      2.   The City Engineer shall erect and maintain signs upon all
unimproved highways upon which a weight limit is imposed at the
entrances thereto from all improved highways, from all highways upon
which no weight limit has been imposed and from all highways upon which
a greater weight limit has been imposed.

      3.   Whenever such weight limit signs have been placed as provided
in this Section, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to drive or
operate a vehicle upon such unimproved highway when the maximum gross
weight of such vehicle, plus the weight of the load thereon, exceeds the
weight limit stated by such signs except that any commercial vehicle
shall not be prohibited from using any City street by direct route to or
from a State highway for the purpose of delivering or loading for
transportation, goods, wares or merchandise as provided in the Vehicle
Code.

      4.   Whenever the City Council finds that because of repaving or
repair of an unimproved highway, that a weight limit is no longer
necessary upon such highway, the City Council shall by resolution direct
the City Engineer to remove the weight limit signs from such highway or
entrances thereto.

   B.   Temporary Limits on Improved Highways.

      1.   Whenever the City Council, upon the basis of an engineering
investigation, determines that an improved highway as defined in the
Vehicle Code, will be destroyed by reason of deterioration if vehicles
of over a certain gross weight are permitted to operate thereon, the
City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to erect
temporary signs, as provided in Subsection A.2. of this Section for
unimproved highways, specifying the maximum gross weight limits upon
such highway. No such reduced weight limits shall extend for a period of
more than ninety (90) days unless actual repair of such highway is begun
within such time and thereafter continuously carried on to completion.

      2.   Whenever such temporary weight limit signs have been placed
as provided in this Section, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to
drive or operate a vehicle upon such improved highway when the maximum
gross weight of such vehicle, plus the weight of the load thereon,
exceeds the weight limit stated by such signs, except that any
commercial vehicle shall not be prohibited from using any City street by
direct route to or from a state highway for the purpose of delivering or
loading for transporting goods, wares, or merchandise as provided in the
Vehicle Code.

   C.   Closing Highways to Commercial Vehicles.

      1.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council
determines, upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, that
it is necessary to prohibit the use of any street, road or highway in an
unincorporated residential subdivision area to commercial vehicles
exceeding a gross weight of fourteen thousand (14,000) pounds, the City
Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to erect and
maintain signs indicating such prohibition.

      2.   Whenever the City Council determines, upon the basis of a
traffic engineering investigation, that the conditions for which a load
limit was established as provided in Subsection C.1. of this Section no
longer exist, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City
Engineer to remove such weight restriction signs.

10.28.090 Weight Limits on Bridges.

   A.   Whenever the City Council determines, upon the basis of a
structural engineering investigation, that the structure of a bridge on
a highway is such that it is unsafe for vehicles over a certain weight
to use such bridge, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City
Engineer to place signs at both entrances to such bridge specifying the
maximum gross weight limits of any vehicle or combination of vehicles
which shall be permitted to cross such bridge.

   B.   Whenever the City Council finds, because of rebuilding,
repairing or strengthening such bridge, that such weight limits are no
longer necessary, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City
Engineer to remove such weight limit signs from the entrances to such
bridge.

10.28.100 Driving through Funeral Processions.

No driver of a vehicle shall drive between vehicles comprising a funeral
procession while they are in motion and when the vehicles in such
procession are conspicuously so designated.

10.28.110 Driving on New Pavement Prohibited.

No person shall ride or drive any animal or any vehicle over or across
any newly-made pavement or freshly painted marking on any street when a
barrier or sign is in place warning persons not to drive over or across
such pavement or marking or sign stating that the street or any portion
thereof is closed.

10.28.120 Driving on Limited Access Roadway Prohibited.

No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any limited access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public
authority.

10.28.130 Tampering with Traffic Survey Devices.

It is unlawful for any person to move, molest, tamper with or damage any
survey device used for the purpose of making traffic investigations
located on any City street.

10.28.140 Unauthorized Painting of Curbs.

No person, unless authorized by this City, shall paint any street or
curb surface, provided, however, that this Section shall not apply to
the painting of numbers on a curb surface by any person who has complied
with the provisions of any resolution or ordinance of this City
pertaining thereto.

Chapter 10.30
BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES

Sections:

   10.30.010   Definitions

   10.30.020   Regulation of Operation of Motor Vehicles, including
Motorcycles and Off-road Vehicles

   10.30.030   Motor Vehicle Operation - Off-road Dust Provision

   10.30.040   Violation of Section 10.30.020 or 10.30.030 - Removal of
Motor Vehicle

   10.30.050   Exemptions

   10.30.060   Permit Required; Application

   10.30.070   Incorporation of Vehicle Code Art. 2.5 and Section 27150

   10.30.080   Noise Level

   10.30.090   Spark Arrester and Muffler

   10.30.100   Exemptions

   10.30.110   Riding on Motorcycles and Bicycles

   10.30.120   Clinging to Moving Vehicles

10.30.010 Definitions.

As used in this Chapter, the following terms are defined:

   A.   “Off-road Vehicle” means any motor driven vehicle designed to be
utilized on other than improved roadways for recreational purposes such
as, but not limited to, dune buggies, motorcycles, “quads,” ATV’s and
the like.

   B.   “Event” means any gathering of more than ten (10) off-road
vehicles or motorcycles for a recreational outing such as, but not
limited to, hound and hare races, rallies, closed course races,
hill-climbs and enduro races.

10.30.020 Regulation of Operation of Motor Vehicles, including
Motorcycles and Off-road Vehicles.

No person shall drive any motor vehicle, including a motorcycle, motor
driven cycle or off-road vehicle, on any land belonging to or occupied
by another without having and, upon request of a peace officer,
displaying written permission from the owner of such land or his agent,
or the person in lawful possession thereof, provided that this Section
shall not be applicable to persons having visible or lawful business
with said owner, agent or person in lawful possession.

10.30.030 Motor Vehicle Operation - Off-road Dust Provision.

No person shall drive any motor vehicle, including a motorcycle, motor
driven cycle or off-road vehicle, on any land in such a manner as to
create any dust or dirt emission beyond any boundary line of the parcel
upon which the off-road vehicle is being operated.

10.30.040 Violation of Section 10.30.020 or 10.30.030 - Removal of Motor
Vehicle.

Any person who violates any provision of Section 10.30.020 or 10.30.030
of this Chapter is guilty of an infraction on the first violation. On
the second and any subsequent violation of the same Section, the
offender is guilty of a misdemeanor and may be arrested by any peace
officer for such violation. If such peace officer arrests a violator of
Section 10.30.020 or 10.30.030, he may remove such motor vehicle from
the private property. Within two (2) working days of the removal of the
motor vehicle, the removing agency shall make all notification required
to comply with Vehicle Code Section 22852.

10.30.050 Exemptions.

The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the operation of
vehicles upon property used for raceways or racing facilities in
accordance with a license or permit issued by the City.

10.30.060 Permit Required; Application.

   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to organize,
conduct or participate in an off-road vehicle or motorcycle event within
the corporate limits of the City, unless a permit for such event has
first been issued by the City.

   B.   Applications for a permit to organize or conduct an off-road
vehicle or motorcycle event shall be in the form of a letter requesting
permission to organize and conduct an event. The letter shall describe
the proposed event. The City shall grant the permit if it determines
that the event will apparently be conducted in compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations, that the proposed location will be
desirable to the public convenience and welfare, that the proposed
operation will not create any undue fire hazard, and that such operation
is of sufficient distance from occupied areas so as not to cause
excessive noise, dust or fumes affecting the occupied areas. The City,
upon granting of said permit, may attach whatever conditions and terms
are necessary or appropriate to carry out the objectives stated in this
Section.

10.30.070 Incorporation of Vehicle Code Art. 2.5 and Section 27150.

Cal. Vehicle Code, Art. 2.5 (commencing with § 27200) and Section 27150
are incorporated by reference.

10.30.080 Noise Level.

No person shall operate a motor vehicle whose noise level is in excess
of that provided in Cal. Vehicle Code, Art. 2.5 (commencing with §
27200).

10.30.090 Spark Arrester and Muffler.

Any motor vehicle operated within the City shall be equipped with a
spark arrester and also with a muffler as defined in Vehicle Code
Section 27150. No person shall operate a motor vehicle unless it is so
equipped with a spark arrester and muffler.

10.30.100 Exemptions.

   A.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to operation of
vehicles upon property used for raceways or racing facilities in
accordance with a license or permit issued by the City.

   B.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply on land that is
vacant or unimproved private property unless that land is immediately
adjacent and contiguous to residential property, or enclosed by fence,
or under cultivation, or posted with signs forbidding trespass displayed
at intervals of not less than three (3) to a mile along all exterior
boundaries and at all roads and trails entering the private land.

10.30.110 Riding on Motorcycles and Bicycles.

No person shall ride upon a highway on either a motorcycle or bicycle on
a portion of said vehicle which is not specifically designed for the
carrying of passengers, nor shall any person operating a motorcycle or
bicycle upon a highway permit another to do so.

10.30.120 Clinging to Moving Vehicles.

It is unlawful for any person traveling upon any bicycle, motorcycle,
motor scooter or any moving vehicle of any nature whatever, on any
public highway, to cling to or attach himself or his vehicle to any
other moving vehicle.

Chapter 10.32
BICYCLE LICENSING, REGISTRATION, IMPOUNDING AND FEES FOR SERVICE

Sections:

   10.32.010   Definitions

   10.32.020   License and Registration Required

   10.32.030   Identification Card/Tag Issuance

   10.32.040   Establishing of Fees

   10.32.050   Dealer’s Records

   10.32.060   Lost Records

   10.32.070   Tampering with Bicycle Identification

   10.32.080   Bicycle Impoundment

   10.32.090   Bicycle Traffic Laws

10.32.010 Definitions.

For purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases are defined
as follows:

   A.   “Bicycle” is a device upon which any person may ride, propelled
exclusively by human power though a system of belts, chains, or gears,
and having either two (2) or three (3) wheels in a tandem or tricycle
arrangement.

   B.   “Highway” is a way or place of whatever nature, maintained and
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. Highway
includes streets.

   C.   “Roadway” is that portion of a highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.

   D.   “Chief of Police” shall include his designated representative.

10.32.020 License and Registration Required.

   A.   No person in the City shall ride or propel any bicycle upon any
street, alley, park, bicycle path or lane, or other public place in the
City which is not registered and for which the appropriate license fee
has not been paid or which does not bear a license place or sticker as
required by this Chapter, as per Vehicle Code Section 39002.

   B.   The Adelanto Police Department shall license bicycles for
persons residing within the City. All applicants residing outside the
City limits shall be referred to their respective City or jurisdiction
of residency.

   C.   Application for registration and licensing of bicycle shall be
made by the owner or person having control of such bicycle thereof to
the Chief of Police upon appropriate forms furnished by the Police
Department. Such application shall contain the name and address of the
owner of person having charge or control of such bicycle, the make and
kind of bicycle, the factory frame or serial number thereof and any
other information or description which is deemed necessary by the Chief
of Police for purposes of identification and for the transfer of
ownership of such bicycle.

   D.   The Chief of Police shall keep a record of the registration and
the date of expiration of each license, to whom issued and the license
number thereof and such other information as he deems necessary for the
identification of bicycles and the enforcement of the provisions of this
Chapter.

10.32.030 Identification Card/Tag Issuance.

Upon payment of the license fee provided by this Chapter, the Chief of
Police shall issue to the applicant a registration card containing the
following information:

   A.   The license number assigned to the applicant.

   B.   The applicant’s name and address.

   C.   Provisions for the transfer of ownership of said bicycle.

   D.   Brief description of the bicycle being registered.

      Said registration card shall be retained by the applicant as proof
of ownership and kept in a safe place. All license tags shall be renewed
on January 1st of the third year following the year of registration.

      Upon registration of any bicycle and the payment of the license
fee required by this Chapter, the Chief of Police shall issue to the
applicant a license tag bearing the unique number assigned to that
bicycle by the State in accordance with Vehicle Code Section 39001. This
tag shall be affixed to the frame of such bicycle in plain view below
the seat thereof. Such license tag shall remain on such bicycle and
shall not be removed therefrom.

10.32.040 Establishing of Fees.

The fees required to be paid pursuant to this Chapter are as follows:

   A.   For a new license and registration, the sum of six dollars
($6.00) is required.

   B.   For each transfer of ownership which requires a new registration
card, the sum of one dollar ($1.00) is required for each full year or
pro rata share of any one (1) year remaining on the original
registration certificate or license.

   C.   For replacement of a bicycle registration card or license tag
lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated or illegible, the sum of one dollar
($1.00) is required for each full year or pro rata share of any one (1)
year remaining on the original registration certificate or license.

   D.   For release of an impounded bicycle, the sum of ten dollars
($10.00) is required.

      Revenues from fees collected shall be retained by the licensing
City and shall be used to meet costs and to improve bicycle safety
programs within the limits of the jurisdiction.

10.32.050 Dealer’s Records.

Every person engaged in the business of buying, trading or selling
bicycles in the City shall keep at his place of business a record of all
bicycles, bought, sold or rented by him, giving the date of such
transaction, the name and address of the person from whom purchased or
traded, or to whom sold or rented, a description of such bicycle by name
and make, the frame or serial number, and the number of the license tag
attached thereto. Such record shall be maintained in plain, legible
handwriting in a bound book, which record shall be available for
inspection by members of the Police Department, giving the name, address
and telephone number of all persons buying, selling or trading bicycles
at his place of business, and the bicycle manufacture, type, frame
number and bicycle tag number if any.

10.32.060 Lost Records.

In the event that any identification card or tag is lost or stolen for
any bicycle registered pursuant to this Chapter and the owner or person
having charge or control of such bicycle furnishes satisfactory proof to
the Chief of Police of such loss or theft upon payment of the fee
provided in Section 10.32.040, the Chief of Police shall issue a new
identification card or tag. It shall be the duty of any owner or person
having charge or control of any bicycle registered pursuant to this
Chapter, to notify the Chief of Police immediately of the loss or theft
of such bicycle.

10.32.070 Tampering with Bicycle Identification.

It is unlawful for any person to remove, destroy, mutilate, tamper with
or alter the serial number on the frame of any bicycle, or the
identification tag affixed to the frame of any bicycle, or tamper with
any identification card registered pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter, provided, however, that nothing herein shall prohibit the Chief
of Police from placing numbers or letters on frames of bicycles for
purposes of identification.

10.32.080 Bicycle Impoundment.

The Chief of Police shall have the right to impound and retain
possession of any bicycle being operated in violation of the provisions
described in this Chapter and may retain possession of such bicycle
until the provisions of such Sections are complied with, and all fees
provided by Section 10.32.040 are paid. If such bicycle is not claimed
within three (3) months, it shall be deemed to be abandoned. Any bicycle
which has been so impounded and held for three (3) months without
redemption by or on behalf of the lawful owner thereof shall, if
saleable, be sold at such time and place to be determined by the Chief
of Police. If so determined by the Chief of Police unredeemed bicycles
complete with new registrations may be made available to charitable
groups for distribution.

When any bicycle so impounded bears the identification tag required by
the provisions of this Chapter, the impounding agency shall, within
seven (7) days after impoundment, send by regular mail a notification of
impound addressed to the registered owner at the registered address.

10.32.090 Bicycle Traffic Laws.

All laws to the provisions of the California Vehicle Code shall apply to
the operation of a bicycle, and any violations of said laws are
punishable as described in that Code. No person shall ride a bicycle
upon a sidewalk within any business district, or on the sidewalk within
any business district, or on the sidewalk adjacent to any public school
building, church, recreation center, playground or over any pedestrian
over crossing, or within any crosswalk. Whenever a person is riding a
bicycle on a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian; and when overtaking and passing a pedestrian, shall give an
audible signal. A person riding a bicycle off a sidewalk and onto the
roadway shall yield to all traffic on the roadway.

Chapter 10.34
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, INLINE SKATES AND OTHER SELF-POWERED WHEELED
DEVICES

Sections:

   10.34.010   Operation of Devices Prohibited in Posted Private
Property Within Commercial and Industrial Zones

   10.34.020   Operation of Devices Prohibited in Posted Public Property

   10.34.030   Skateboarding Structures Prohibited on Public Property

   10.34.040   Yielding the Right-of-Way

   10.34.050   Attaching to Moving Objects Prohibited

   10.34.060   Penalty for Violation

10.34.010 Operation of Devices Prohibited in Posted Private Property
within Commercial and Industrial Zones.

It is unlawful for any person to operate any self-powered wheeled device
upon private property located in any commercial or industrial zone in
the City, so long as such property is posted so as to give reasonable
notice of such prohibition. This section shall not apply to persons
participating in any events or classes sponsored by the property owner,
in which the use of self-powered wheeled devices are utilized, permitted
or required.

[Ord. No. 484, Section 1, 1/28/09.]

10.34.020 Operation of Devices Prohibited in Posted Public Property.

It is unlawful for any person to operate any self-powered wheeled
device, upon any public property within the City where notice of such
prohibition has been posted. This section shall not apply to persons
participating in any events or classes sponsored by the City, in which
the use of self- powered wheeled devices are utilized, permitted or
required.

[Ord. No. 484, Section 1, 1/28/09.]

10.34.030 Skateboarding Structures Prohibited on Public Property.

It is unlawful for any person to place any skateboard ramp, half pipe
and/or similar physical structure upon which skateboarding, skating
and/or other self-powered wheeled device is conducted, or which is used
in conjunction with skateboarding, skating and/or other self-powered
wheeled device, upon any public property, sidewalk, or any City, County,
or State maintained roadway. This section shall not apply to temporary
and permanent structures as part of any event sponsored by the City, in
which the use of such structures has been permitted, or are a part of an
approved skating facility.

[Ord. No. 484, Section 1, 1/28/09.]

10.34.040 Yielding the Right-of-Way.

   A.   The driver of a motor vehicle, prior to driving over or upon any
sidewalk or public crosswalk, shall yield the right-of-way to any person
riding in, on or by means of a skateboard, roller skates, inline skates
and other self-powered wheeled devices.

   B.   Whenever any person is riding in, on or by means of a
skateboard, roller skates, inline skates and other self-powered wheeled
devices on a public sidewalk or public crosswalk, such person shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian.

[Ord. No. 484, Section 1, 1/28/09.]

10.34.050 Attaching to Moving Objects Prohibited.

   A.   It is unlawful for any person riding a skateboard, roller
skates, inline skates and other self-powered wheeled devices, to attach
to any moving object, including but not limited to persons, bicycles,
animals or motor vehicles.

   B.   It is unlawful for any person operating a moving vehicle to
permit any person riding in, on or by means of a skateboard, roller
skates, inline skates and other self-powered wheeled devices, to attach
to the motor vehicle while the motor vehicle is in motion.

[Ord. No. 484, Section 1, 1/28/09.]

10.34.060 Penalty for Violation.

It is an infraction for any person to violate any provision, or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this Chapter. Any person
violating any provision of this Chapter or failing to comply with any of
its requirements shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and as defined
in Section 1.20.010 and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a
fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first violation,
two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second violation, and five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each additional violation within a one (1) year
period. The fines in this section may be amended by ordinance or
resolution of the City Council.

[Ord. No. 484, Section 1, 1/28/09; Ord. No. 491, Section 28, 9/23/09.]

Chapter 10.36
TRIP REDUCTION AND TRAVEL DEMAND MANAGEMENT

Sections:

   10.36.010   Purpose and Intent.

   10.36.020   Requirements - Trip Reduction

   10.36.030   Requirements - Travel Demand Management

10.36.010 Purpose and Intent.

   A.   The San Bernardino Associated Governments, as the Congestion
Management Agency for San Bernardino County, adopted the Congestion
Management Program (“CMP”) on November 4, 1992. The CMP requires each
local jurisdiction to adopt and implement a trip reduction and travel
demand management ordinance that provides alternative transportation
methods. Failure to adopt an ordinance can result in loss of Proposition
III gas tax funds by being found in non-compliance with the CMP.

   B.   The trip reduction and travel demand management ordinance is
intended to satisfy the legal requirements of Chapter 6 of the CMP.

10.36.020 Requirements - Trip Reduction.

As an employer of one hundred (100) or more employees, the City has
conducted and compiled an employee survey that provides a data base for
implementing the City’s ride-share program. The employee survey further
provided data to the Mojave Desert Air Quality Management District to be
used to measure the effectiveness of trip reduction as a means to reduce
vehicle emissions in the southeast Desert Air Basin. This data will be
used to assist in the District’s determination whether or not to
implement Rule 1701, Employer Based Trip Reduction.

10.36.030 Requirements - Travel Demand Management.

   A.   Travel demand management involves the implementation of
strategies and programs which reduce traffic congestion, vehicle miles
traveled (“VMT”), and/or vehicle trips (“VT”), which result in reduction
in mobile source emissions. The following are measures being implemented
by the City. Control measures implemented by the City prior to being
improved by any other regulatory agency will result in the City
achieving credit for trip reductions and corresponding improvements in
the roadway and intersection level of service (“LOS”) on the City’s CMP
network.

   B.   Measures Presently Implemented by the City.

      1.   Transit/Multiple Occupancy Vehicle Service.

         a.   The City is a member of the Victor Valley Transit Services
Authority (“VVTSA”), which provides multiple occupancy vehicle service
to the City. Approximately nine hundred fifteen (915) miles of roads are
serviced by the current route, with monthly ridership in excess of
twenty thousand (20,000). The availability of this service reduces
traffic congestion, VMT and VT. The fixed-route network will be
periodically evaluated to determine appropriate revisions and expansion
based upon new development and levels of ridership. The City, with the
VVTSA, has promoted the use of this service through various public
information measures. These include:

            (1)   Television commercials on local television and radio
stations;

            (2)   Appearance by the transit manager on local television
and radio talk shows, and at community group meetings;

            (3)   Availability of bus schedules at various City
locations, including City Hall and other places of public assembly; and

            (4)   Notification of City residents of the service through
the City newsletter and quarterly recreation and park district
newsletter.

               The City will continue to encourage public information
programs which promote the use of alternate modes of transportation.

         b.   Bus/Multiple Occupancy Vehicle Turnouts. Bus turnouts are
required to be designed and installed as a condition of approval for new
developments which are likely to generate significant quantities of
arriving/departing traffic. These turnouts are provided to accommodate
existing bus service routes and to encourage the expansion of service to
new developments.

      2.   Bicycle Program. The City adopted Ordinance 130 establishing
a City-wide bicycle trail system and associated design standards. The
purpose of the system is to establish a long range plan for the City
that will encourage the development and use of bicycles for
commuter-oriented transportation. The City is an active participant in
the Bicycle Plan Advisory Committee, a standing committee of SANBAG,
that is pursuing the establishment of a regional bicycle transportation
network.

      3.   Promotion of Land Use Regulations.

         a.   Amend Zoning Regulations. The City has adopted Ordinance
126 which established a service commercial (C-3) zone district. This
district broadens the number and types of retail and service uses that
are allowed in areas with proximity to the industrial area with a high
concentration of daytime employees. This zoning amendment benefits the
reduction of VT and VMT by providing convenient access to vital consumer
services and products to industrial employees.

         b.   Encourage Mixed-use Development. The City encourages the
implementation of master-planned mixed-use developments as evidenced by
the approval of the ten thousand (10,000) acre Rancho Las Flores planned
development and by the planned mix-use general plan designation of over
two thousand (2,000) acres of land contained within the City’s current
corporate boundaries. These mixed-use developments facilitate optimum VT
and VMT ratios by such measures as residential density clustering,
planned proximity to work places and commerce and by encouraging
efficient roadway infrastructure as well as alternative transit
infrastructure.

      4.   Traffic Flow Improvements.

         a.   Traffic Signals.

            (1)   Traffic Signal Coordination. Existing and new traffic
signals are being coordinated to increase uninterrupted vehicle travel.

            (2)   Traffic Signal Timing. Existing and new traffic
signals are periodically evaluated to ensure cycle times are optimal for
traffic movement.

            (3)   Traffic signal improvements are being used to increase
roadway efficiency and capacity during peak travel periods, resulting in
improved vehicle movement.

         b.   Modification to Vehicle Travel Lanes. The City reviews new
developments to determine if additional travel lanes for
acceleration/deceleration purposes are needed. This is required at major
street intersections and/or major street entrance(s) to development
projects.

      5.   Trip Reduction Ordinance. The City participated in the
preparation of the Mojave Desert Air Quality Management District’s Rule
1701, Employer Based Trip Reduction. This Rule encourages participation
in home-to-work commute alternatives by employers with one hundred (100)
or more employees, when thirty-three (33) or more arrive to work sites
during the peak travel period. The district is currently evaluating the
effectiveness of the Rule in terms of emission reduction. The City will
cooperate with the district during this evaluation period; and if the
Rule is implemented by the district, the City will work to implement a
trip reduction ordinance for its employees.

Chapter 10.38
IMPOUNDED/STORED VEHICLES/TRAFFIC OFFENDER FUND

Sections:

   10.38.010   Authorization of Fee

   10.38.020   Acts Subject to Recovery

   10.38.030   Waiver of Fee

   10.38.040   Establishing of Fee

   10.38.050   Traffic Offender Fund

   10.38.060   Expenditure of Monies

10.38.010 Authorization of Fee.

The owner of any vehicle towed under the direction of the Adelanto
Police Department or City of Adelanto Code Enforcement Officers pursuant
to Vehicle Code Section 22651(h), 22651(k), 22651(o), 22651(p), 22655.5
or 14602.6, shall be required to pay an administrative fee for the
release of said vehicle(s).

10.38.020 Acts Subject to Recovery.

   A.   When a vehicle is parked or left standing upon a highway for
seventy-two (72) or more hours in violation of a local ordinance
authorizing removal and after adequate warning has been posted on the
vehicle.

   B.   When a vehicle is found upon a highway, any public lands or an
off-street parking facility with a registration expiration date in
excess of six (6) months before the date it is found.

   C.   When an officer issues the driver of a vehicle a notice to
appear for being unlicensed or driving on a suspended or revoked
license.

   D.   When an officer arrests any person driving or in control of a
vehicle for an alleged offense and the officer is, by this Code or other
law, permitted to take, and does take the person into custody.

   E.   When a vehicle is taken as evidence in/of a crime and the
vehicle was used by the alleged perpetrator of the crime with the
express or implied permission of the owner of the vehicle.

10.38.030 Waiver of Fee.

   A.   This fee may be waived by authorization of the Police Department
upon receipt of verifiable proof that the vehicle in question was
reported stolen at the time the vehicle was removed or was involved in a
collision.

   B.   Pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 22852, the registered and legal
owner(s) of a towed vehicle in the circumstances stated in Section
10.38.020 are to be provided an opportunity for a hearing before the
Chief of Police or his appointed representative to determine the
validity of the vehicle storage resulting from the tow. If the hearing
determines the storage to be unlawful, the storing agency will be
responsible for the towing and storage charges.

10.38.040 Establishing of Fee.

The administrative fee for vehicle processing/release, other than
vehicles that were taken as a result of Vehicle Code Sections 23152(a)
and 23152(b), is fixed at one hundred twelve dollars ($112.00). The
administrative fee for vehicle processing/release for vehicles taken as
a result of the above listed Vehicle Code Sections is fixed at one
hundred sixty-eight dollars ($168.00). These fees are subject to
adjustment by action of the City Council.

10.38.050 Traffic Offender Fund.

A fund has been created for the purpose of traffic safety within the
City of Adelanto. This fund will be known as the “Traffic Offender
Fund.” This fund is created for the purposes of receiving and expending
fees collected pursuant to Section 10.38.040.

10.38.060 Expenditure of Monies.

The appropriation of all monies in the Traffic Offender Fund shall be
made for the purposes of traffic safety programs within the City of
Adelanto. The traffic safety program shall include the enforcement of,
education of and prosecution of a suspended or revoked driving
privilege, unlicensed driver and persons driving under the influence of
alcohol and/or drugs. Expenditures shall include, but are not limited to
the following:

   A.   Purchase of equipment.

   B.   Contractual services.

   C.   Material and supplies.

   D.   Any other expenditure related to traffic safety and the
enforcement of traffic laws.

      The administration of the fund shall conform to this Code and all
accounting principals practiced by the City. The balance remaining in
the Traffic Offender Fund at the close of any fiscal year shall be
deemed to have been provided for a specific purpose and shall be carried
forward and accumulated in said fund for the purposes set forth herein.

Chapter 10.40
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS

Sections:

   10.40.010   Purpose

   10.40.020   Definitions

   10.40.030   Expedited Permitting Process

   10.40.040   Permit Application Processing

   10.40.050   Technical Review

   10.40.060   Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Installation
Requirements

10.40.010   Purpose.

The purpose of this Chapter is to promote and encourage the use of
electric vehicles by creating an expedited and streamlined permitting
process for electric vehicle charging stations.

[Ord. No. 614, § 3, 7/8/20.]

10.40.020 Definitions

   A.   "Electric Vehicle Charging Station" or "Charging Station" means
any level of electric vehicle supply equipment station that is designed
and built in compliance with Article 625 of the California Electrical
Code, as it reads on the effective date of this Chapter, and delivers
electricity from a source outside an electric vehicle into a plug-in
electric vehicle.

   B.   "Specific Adverse Impact" means a significant, quantifiable,
direct and unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified and
written public health or safety standards, policies or conditions as
they existed on the date the application was deemed complete.

   C.   "Electronic Submittal" means the utilization of one or more of
the following:

      1.   Electronic mail or email

      2.   The internet.

      3.   Facsimile.

[Ord. No. 614, § 3, 7/8/20.]

10.40.030   Expedited Permitting Process.

Consistent with Government Code 65850.7, the Building Official shall
implement an expedited, streamlined permitting process for electric
vehicle charging stations, and adopt a checklist of all requirements
with which electric vehicle charging stations shall comply with in order
to be eligible for expedited review. The expedited, streamlined
permitting process and checklist may refer to the recommendations
contained in the most current version of the "Plug-in Electric Vehicle
Infrastructure Permitting Checklist" or the "Zero-Emission Vehicles in
California Community Readiness Guidebook," as published by the
Governor's Office of Planning and Research. The City's adopted checklist
shall be published on the City's website.

[Ord. No. 614, § 3, 7/8/20.]

10.40.040   Permit Application Processing.

   A.   Prior to submitting an application for processing, the applicant
shall verify that the installation of an electric vehicle charging
station will not have specific, adverse impact to public health and
safety and building occupants. Verification by the applicant includes,
but is not limited to: electrical system capacity and loads; electrical
system wiring, bonding and overcurrent protections; building
infrastructure affected by the charging stations equipment and
associated conduits; and areas of charging station equipment and vehicle
parking.

   B.   A permit application that satisfies the information requirements
in the City's adopted checklist shall be deemed complete and be promptly
processed. Upon confirmation by the Building Official that the permit
application and supporting documents meet the requirements of the City's
adopted checklist, and is consistent with Government Code Section
65850.7, the Building Official shall approve the application and issue
all necessary permits. Such approval does not authorize an applicant to
energize or utilize the electric vehicle charging station until approval
is granted by the City. If the Building Official determines that the
permit application is incomplete, he or she shall issue a written
correction notice to the applicant, detailing all deficiencies in the
application and any additional information required to be eligible for
the expedited permit issuance.

   C.   Consistent with Government Code Section 65850.7, the Building
Official shall allow for electronic submittal of permit applications
covered by this Ordinance and associate documentation. In accepting such
permit applications, the Building Official shall also accept electronic
signatures on all forms, applications and other documentation in lieu of
wet signature by any applicant.

[Ord. No. 614, § 3, 7/8/20.]

10.40.050   Technical Review.

   A.   It is the intend of this Chapter to encourage the installation
of electric vehicle charging stations by removing obstacles to
permitting for charging stations so long as the action does not
supersede the Building Official's authority to address higher priority
life-safety situations. If the Building Official makes a finding based
on substantial evidence that the electric vehicle charging station could
have a specific adverse impact upon the public health or safety, as
defined in this Chapter, the City may require the applicant to apply for
a use permit.

   B.   If the technical review of the charging station, consistent with
Government Code Section 65850.7, the Building Official shall not
condition the approval for any electric vehicle charging station permit
on the approval of such a system by an association, as that term is
defined under Civil Code Section 4080.

[Ord. No. 614, § 3, 7/8/20.]

10.40.060   Electric Vehicle Charging Station Installation Requirements.

   A.   Electric vehicle charging station equipment shall meet the
requirements of the California Electrical Code, the Society of
Automotive Engineers, the National Electrical Manufacturer's Association
and accredited testing laboratories such as Underwriters Laboratories
and the rules of the Public Utilities Commission or a Municipal Electric
Utility Company regarding safety and reliability.

   B.   Installation of electric vehicle charging stations and
associated wiring, bonding, disconnecting means and overcurrent
protective devices shall meet the requirements of Article 625 and all
applicable provisions of the California Electrical Code.

   C.   Installation of electric vehicle charging stations shall be
incorporated into the load calculations of all new or existing
electrical services and shall meet the requirements of the California
Electrical Code. Electric charging vehicle equipment shall be considered
a continuous load.

   D.   Anchorage of either floor-mounted or wall-mounted electric
vehicle charging stations shall meet the requirements of the California
Building or Residential Code as application per occupancy stations shall
not adversely affect building elements.

[Ord. No. 614, § 3, 7/8/20.]

TITLE 11
RESERVED

TITLE 12
RESERVED

TITLE 13
STREETS, SIDEWALKS & PUBLIC UTILITIES

Chapters:

   13.05   Underground Utility Lines

   13.10   Underground Utility Facilities

   13.15   Street Naming and Numbering

   13.20   Vehicular and Pedestrian Circulation Standards

   13.25   Encroachment Permits - General Provisions

   13.30   Construction Permits

   13.35   Equipment Moving Permits

   13.40   Excavation Permits

   13.45   Filming and Video Taping Permits

   13.50   Moving Permit Regulations

   13.55   Blinker Lights Regulations

   13.60   Newsracks

   13.65   Parades and Processions

   13.70   Banners

Chapter 13.05
UNDERGROUND UTILITY LINES

Sections:

   13.05.010   Definitions

   13.05.020   When Underground Installation Required

   13.05.030   Undergrounding of New Facilities

   13.05.040   Exceptions

   13.05.050   Temporary Utilities

   13.05.060   Above Ground Appurtenant Equipment

   13.05.070   In-Lieu Deposits

13.05.010 Definitions.

   A.   “Service Lines” are defined for the purposes of this Chapter as
those electrical, telephone, cable or other utility conductors that
extend from the "distribution lines" to the building, structure or
improvement which consumes or uses the utility service.

   B.   “Distribution Lines” are defined for the purposes of this
Chapter as those electrical utility conductors which are energized at
thirty-four thousand five hundred (34,500) volts or less, telephone,
cable or other utility lines that supply utility product to “service
lines.”

   C.   “Development” is defined for the purposes of this Chapter as the
construction or the enlargement of any primary use building.

13.05.020 When Underground Installation Required.

Except as provided in Section 13.05.040, underground installation is
required for all electrical lines energized at twenty-four thousand five
hundred (24,500) volts or less, telephone, cable, antenna television and
similar service wires or cables which:

   A.   Provide direct service to the property being developed; or

   B.   Are existing and located within the boundaries being developed;
or

   C.   Are existing between the property line and the centerline of the
peripheral streets of the property being developed; or

   D.   Are located along or within six (6) feet of the lot lines of the
property being developed; or

   E.   Are located within the existing or required right-of-way for the
project; or

   F.   Are located as a result of a project.

13.05.030 Undergrounding of New Facilities.

Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, all new service and
distribution lines shall be constructed underground.

13.05.040 Exceptions.

   A.   The following exceptions shall apply, when and only when, a
property owner signs an agreement agreeing not to protest the formation
of a municipal underground utility district and further agreeing to
prepare said property to accept underground utility lines in accordance
with the applicable rules of the utility involved. Said agreement shall
be recorded as an encumbrance against the land.

      1.   Existing overhead distribution lines will be permitted to
remain in areas where these distribution lines have existing overhead
service lines to adjacent lots.

      2.   Existing overhead distribution lines will be permitted to
remain for developments consisting of three (3) lots or less that do not
exceed six hundred (600) feet of frontage.

   B.   The enlargement of fifty percent (50%) or less of the total
square footage of industrial or commercial buildings shall not be
subject to any of the requirements of this Chapter.

13.05.050 Temporary Utilities.

Temporary utilities along with the necessary poles, wires and cables may
be permitted for the period during which a valid building permit has
been issued or for temporary uses which comply with the requirements of
the zoning ordinance, building code and other applicable regulations.

13.05.060 Above Ground Appurtenant Equipment.

Appurtenances and associated equipment including, but not limited to,
surface mounted transformers and switches, pedestal mounted terminal
boxes and meter cabinets, and concealed ducts in an underground system
may be placed above ground unless the project is conditioned otherwise.
Utility service poles may be placed in the area within six (6) feet of
the rear lot line of the property to be developed where overhead lines
exist for the sole purpose of terminating underground facilities.

13.05.070 In-Lieu Deposits.

If technology or economics of scale require or permit a delay in the
underground installation required in the application of this Chapter,
then the cost of undergrounding shall be estimated by the City; and a
cash deposit in the estimated amount shall be deposited with the City.
This cash deposit shall be placed into an underground utility fund and
used solely for the purpose of undergrounding distribution lines as
required by this Chapter throughout the City.

Chapter 13.10
UNDERGROUND UTILITY FACILITIES

Sections:

   13.10.010   Purpose and Intent

   13.10.020   Definitions

   13.10.030   Public Hearing

   13.10.040   Designation of Districts by Resolution

   13.10.050   Unlawful Acts

   13.10.060   Emergency or Unusual Circumstances

   13.10.070   Exceptions

   13.10.080   Notice to Property Owners and Utility Companies

   13.10.090   Responsibility of Utility Companies

   13.10.100   Property Owner Responsibility

   13.10.110   Service of Notice

   13.10.120   Contents of Notice

   13.10.130   Failure to Provide Facilities - Work Completion -
Report - Hearing

   13.10.140   Hearing - Notice

   13.10.150   Hearing - City Council Decision

   13.10.160   Assessment - Lien

   13.10.170   Responsibility of City

   13.10.180   Extension of Time

   13.10.190   Underground Utility District No. 1

13.10.010 Purpose and Intent.

It is the purpose and intent of this Chapter to provide for the orderly
removal of existing overhead facilities and the construction of new
underground facilities by providing a procedure by which the Council may
create an underground utility district upon finding that it is in the
public interest to do so.

13.10.020 Definitions.

Wherever in this Chapter the words or phrases hereinafter in this
Section defined are used, they shall have the respective meanings
assigned to them in the following definitions:

   A.   “Commission” means the Public Utilities Commission of the State
of California.

   B.   “Person” means and includes individuals, firms, corporations,
partnerships, and their agents and employees;

   C.   “Poles, Overhead Wires and Associated Overhead Structures” means
poles, towers, supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms,
crossarms, braces, transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches,
communication circuits, appliances, attachments and appurtenances
located above ground within a district and used or useful in supplying
electric, communication or similar or associated service;

   D.   “Underground Utility District” or “District” means that area in
the City within which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures are prohibited as such area is described in a resolution
adopted pursuant to the provisions of Section 13.10.040.

   E.   “Utility” includes all persons or entities supplying electric,
communication or similar or associated service by means of electrical
materials or devices.

13.10.030 Public Hearing.

   A.   The City Council may from time to time call public hearings to
ascertain whether the public necessity, health, safety or welfare
requires the removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures within designated areas of the City and the underground
installation of wires and facilities for supplying electric,
communication or similar or associated service. The City Clerk shall
notify all affected property owners as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll and utilities concerned by mail of the time and place of
such hearings at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date thereof. Each
such hearing shall be open to the public and may be continued from time
to time. At each such hearing, all persons interested shall be given an
opportunity to be heard. The decision of the City Council shall be final
and conclusive.

   B.   Prior to holding such public hearing, the City Engineer shall
consult with all affected utilities and shall prepare a report for
submission at such hearing containing, among other information, the
extent of such utilities’ participation and estimates of the total costs
to the City and affected property owners. Such reports shall contain an
estimate of the time required to complete such underground installation
and removal of overhead facilities.

13.10.040 Designation of Districts by Resolution.

If, after any such public hearing, the City Council finds that the
public necessity, health, safety or welfare requires such removal and
such underground installation within a designated area, the City Council
shall, by resolution, declare such designated area an underground
utility district and include a description of the area comprising such
district and shall fix the time within which such removal and
underground installation shall be accomplished and within which affected
property owners must be ready to receive underground service. A
reasonable time shall be allowed for such removal and underground
installation, having due regard for the availability of labor, materials
and equipment necessary for such removal and for the installation of
such underground facilities as may be occasioned thereby.

13.10.050 Unlawful Acts.

Whenever the City Council creates an underground utility district and
orders the removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures therein as provided in Section 13.10.040, it is unlawful for
any person or utility to erect, construct, place, keep, maintain,
continue, employ or operate poles, overhead wires and associated
overhead structures in the district after the date when said overhead
facilities are required to be removed by such resolution, except as said
overhead facilities may be required to furnish service to an owner or
occupant of property prior to the performance by such owner or occupant
of the underground work necessary for such owner or occupant to continue
to receive utility service as provided in Sections 13.10.100 through
13.10.160, and for such reasonable time required to remove said
facilities after said work has been performed, and except as otherwise
provided in this Chapter.

13.10.060 Emergency or Unusual Circumstances.

Notwithstanding the provisions of this Chapter, overhead facilities may
be installed and maintained for a period, not to exceed ten (1) days,
without authority of the City Council in order to provide emergency
service. The City Council may grant special permission, on such terms as
the City Council may deem appropriate, in cases of unusual
circumstances, without discrimination as to any person or utility, to
erect, construct, install, maintain, use or operate poles, overhead
wires and associated overhead structures.

13.10.070 Exceptions.

In any resolution adopted pursuant to Section 13.10.040, the City may
authorize any or all of the following exceptions:

   A.   Any municipal facilities or equipment installed under the
supervision and to the satisfaction of the City Engineer;

   B.   Poles or electroliers used exclusively for street lighting;

   C.   Overhead wires (exclusive of supporting structures) crossing any
portion of a district within which overhead wires have been prohibited
or connecting to buildings on the perimeter of a district, when such
wires originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires and
associates overhead structures are not prohibited;

   D.   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used
for the transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of
thirty-four thousand five hundred (34,500) volts;

   E.   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by
means of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one (1) location
on the building to another location of the same building or to an
adjacent building without crossing any public street;

   F.   Antennae, associated equipment and supporting structures, used
by a utility for furnishing communication services;

   G.   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface
mounted transformers and switches, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and
meter cabinets and concealed ducts;

   H.   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures used or to be used in conjunction with construction projects.

13.10.080 Notice to Property Owners and Utility Companies.

   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of a resolution
adopted pursuant to Section 13.10.040, the City Clerk shall notify all
affected utilities and all persons owning real property within the
district created by said resolution of the adoption thereof. The City
Clerk shall further notify such affected property owners of the
necessity that, if they or any person occupying such property desire to
continue to receive electric, communication, or similar or associated
service, they or such occupant, shall provide all necessary facility
changes on their premises so as to receive such service from the lines
of the supplying utility or utilities at a new location.

   B.   Notification by the City Clerk shall be made by mailing a copy
of the resolution adopted pursuant to Section 13.10.040, together with a
copy of this Chapter, to affected property owners as such are shown on
the last equalized assessment roll and to the affected utilities.

13.10.090 Responsibility of Utility Companies.

If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service
within a district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to Section
13.10.040, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of the
conduits, conductors and associated equipment required to be furnished
by it under its applicable rules, regulations and tariffs on file with
the commission.

13.10.100 Property Owner Responsibility.

Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a building
or structure within a district shall construct and provide that portion
of the service connection on his property between the facilities
referred to in Section 13.10.090 and the termination facility on or
within said building or structure being served. If the above is not
accomplished by any person within the time provided for in the
resolution enacted pursuant to Section 13.10.040, the City Engineer
shall give notice in writing to the owner thereof as shown on the last
equalized assessment roll to provide the required underground facilities
within thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice.

13.10.110 Service of Notice.

The notice to provide the required underground facilities may be given
either by personal service or by mail. In case of service by mail, the
notice must be deposited in the United States mail in a sealed envelope
with postage prepaid, addressed to the person in possession of such
premises at such premises; and the notice must be addressed to the owner
thereof as such owner’s name appears and must be addressed to such
owner’s last known address as the same appears on the last equalized
assessment roll, and when no address appears, to General Delivery, City
of Adelanto. If notice is given by mail, such notice shall be deemed to
have been received by the person to whom it has been sent within
forty-eight (48) hours after the mailing thereof. If notice is given by
mail to either the owner or occupant of such premises, the City Engineer
shall, within forty-eight (48) hours after the mailing thereof, cause a
copy thereof, printed on a card not less than eight (8) inches by ten
(10) inches in size, to be posted in a conspicuous place on said
premises.

13.10.120 Contents of Notice.

The notice given by the City Engineer to provide the required
underground facilities shall particularly specify what work is required
to be done and shall state that if said work is not completed within
thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice, the City Engineer will
provide such required underground facilities, in which case the cost and
expense thereof will be assessed against the property benefitted and
become a lien upon such property.

13.10.130 Failure to Provide Facilities - Work Completion - Report -
Hearing.

If upon expiration of the thirty (30) day period the said required
underground facilities have not been provided, the City Engineer shall
forthwith proceed to do the work with his own force or may let a
contract for the work, provided however, if such premises are unoccupied
and no electric or communications services are being furnished thereto,
the City Engineer shall in lieu of providing the required underground
facilities, have the authority to order the disconnection and removal of
any and all overhead service wires and associated facilities supplying
utility service to said property. Upon completion of the work by the
City Engineer, the City Engineer shall file a written report with the
City Council setting forth the fact that the required underground
facilities have been provided and the cost thereof, together with a
legal description of the property against which such cost is to be
assessed. The City Council shall thereupon fix a time and place for
hearing protests against the assessment of the cost of such work upon
such premises, which said time shall not be less than ten (10) days
thereafter.

13.10.140 Hearing - Notice.

The City Engineer shall forthwith, upon the time for hearing such
protests having been fixed, give a notice in writing to the person in
possession of such premises, and a notice in writing thereof to the
owner thereof, in the manner hereinabove provided for the giving of the
notice to provide the required underground facilities, of the time and
place that the City Council will pass upon such report and will hear
protests against such assessment. Such notice shall also set forth the
amount of the proposed assessment.

13.10.150 Hearing - City Council Decision.

Upon the date and hour set for the hearing of protests, the City Council
shall hear and consider the report and all protests, if there be any,
and then proceed to affirm, modify or reject the assessment.

13.10.160 Assessment - Lien.

If any assessment is not paid within ten (10) days after its
confirmation by the City Council, the amount of the assessment shall
become a lien upon the property against which the assessment is made by
the City Engineer; and the City Engineer is directed to turn over to the
assessor and tax collector a notice of lien on each of said properties
on which the assessment has not been paid, and the assessor and tax
collector shall add the amount of said assessment to the next regular
bill for taxes levied against the premises upon which said assessment
was not paid. Said assessment shall be due and payable at the same time
as said property taxes are due and payable, and if not paid when due and
payable, shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum.

13.10.170 Responsibility of City.

The City shall remove at its own expense all City-owned equipment from
all poles required to be removed hereunder in ample time to enable the
owner or user of such poles to remove the same within the time specified
in the resolution enacted pursuant to Section 13.10.040.

13.10.180 Extension of Time.

In the event that any act required by this Chapter or by a resolution
adopted pursuant to Section 13.10.040 cannot be performed within the
time provided on account of shortage of materials, war, restraint by
public authorities, strikes, labor disturbances, civil disobedience or
any other circumstances beyond the control of the actor, then the time
within which such act will be accomplished shall be extended for a
period equivalent to the time of such limitation.

13.10.190   Underground Utility District No. 1.

The following area shall constitute and be known as the Adelanto
Underground Utility District No. 1: That portion of a strip of land
along the easterly sixty-two (62) feet of the S1/2 of the NE1/4 of
Section 21 Township 5 N 5W, beginning at a point at the intersecting
centerlines Palmdale Road (Highway 18) and Highway 395, thence northerly
along the Highway 395 to a point at the intersection of the centerlines
of Begonia Street and Highway 395.

[Ord. No. 478, § 1, 8/27/08]

Chapter 13.15
STREET NAMING AND NUMBERING

Sections:

   13.15.010   Street Numbering Requirements

   13.15.020   Authority and Duty of City Engineer

   13.15.030   Responsibility; Designation; Location; Size; Maintenance;
Change and Removal

   13.15.040   Odd and Even Numbers

   13.15.050   Multiple Occupancy

   13.15.060   Designation of Numbers

   13.15.070   Street Address Map

   13.15.080   Numbering at Owner’s Expense

   13.15.090   Prerequisite for Building Ownership or Occupancy

   13.15.100   Procedure for Changing Names of Public Streets and
Private Easements

   13.15.110   Change of Name - Petition

   13.15.120   Change of Name - Resolution

   13.15.130   Change of Name - Protest

   13.15.140   Definition

13.15.010 Street Numbering Requirements.

Every person exercising or having ownership, possession, custody,
control or charge of any building, structure or parking lot within the
City of Adelanto, shall have and maintain thereon, in accordance with a
system of street numbering prepared and maintained by the City Engineer
of the City of Adelanto, near or upon each entrance from a public
street, private easement, or right-of-way, in the manner and location
designated by the City Engineer, a street address number.

13.15.020 Authority and Duty of City Engineer.

The City Engineer shall have the authority and duty to establish street
address numbers expressed in Arabic numerals or figures and,
notwithstanding street address numbers located on street curbs, to
prescribe their location on buildings, structures and parking lots and
to order installation, change, substitution and removal of all such
numbers to fulfill the provisions of this Chapter.

13.15.030 Responsibility; Designation; Location; Size; Maintenance;
Change and Removal.

   A.   Responsibility to Install. Installation, change, substitution or
removal of any existing or subsequently designated street address
numbers shall be completed within five (5) days after receipt by the
owner, occupant, lessee, tenant, sub-tenant, fiduciary or custodian of
such building, structure or parking lot, or any person or agent in
charge therefor, from the City Engineer.

   B.   Size. The minimum dimensions of any street address number
designated by the City Engineer on or after July 1, 1974, shall be as
follows:

      1.   The height in inches of any number or figure therein shall
not be less than four (4) inches in height.

      2.   The width of any portion of a figure in or comprising the
number shall not exceed one-tenth (1/10) of its height.

   C.   Design. Design (including shape and style), as well as location
of the street address numbers, shall be such that they are legible and
easily readable. The City Engineer may prescribe a street address number
larger in size than the dimension stated in Subsection B. hereinabove,
if he determines that due to lighting conditions, building locations,
shadows, background or other reasons, the street address numbers of
minimum dimensions will not be easily readable from the street or
approach to the entrance. A street address number of unusual design or
placement may not be employed without the prior written approval of the
City Engineer.

   D.   Rules and Regulations. The City Engineer shall adopt such
reasonable rules and regulations as are necessary to implement the
street address numbers provided for in this Chapter.

13.15.040 Odd and Even Numbers.

The street address numbers on the northerly and westerly sides of each
street shall be even numbers. The street address numbers on the
southerly and easterly sides of each street shall be odd numbers.

13.15.050 Multiple Occupancy.

If any building is separately occupied by two (2) or more families or
businesses and said building is provided with separate entrances opening
to the street, each of said entrances shall be separately numbered.

13.15.060 Designation of Numbers.

The City Engineer or his authorized representative shall, upon
application, designate a number for any building, structure or parking
lot within the City in accordance with the system of numbering as
prepared and maintained by the City Engineer.

13.15.070 Street Address Map.

   A.   Compiling and Filing. The City Engineer is authorized and
directed to compile a map or series of maps of the City, showing the
official number of each such building, lot, parcel or other holding and
the same is designated and entitled "street numbering map" and such map
or series of maps shall be kept on file as public record in the offices
of the City.

   B.   Approval by City Council. The street numbering system and
“street numbering map” shall not be effective and applicable until
approved by the City Council by resolution. Said street numbering system
and street numbering map shall not be changed or modified by the City
Engineer prior to the approval thereof by the City Council resolution.

13.15.080 Numbering at Owner’s Expense.

The owner, occupant, lessee, tenant, sub-tenant, fiduciary or custodian
of such building, structure or parking lot, or any person or agent in
charge thereof, who has received written notice containing appropriate
instructions for street numbering designations, shall perform such
street numbering at his own expense.

13.15.090 Prerequisite for Building Ownership or Occupancy.

It is unlawful for any person to own or occupy in the City any building,
structure or parking lot which fronts on a street without a proper
number being placed thereon, as required by this Chapter. All streets,
including all such private easements existing as of the effective date
of this Chapter, shall be named in accordance with a City resolution,
which shall establish names for such existing private easements and
public streets, and a list of names for such public streets and private
easements to be created in the future and the criteria for the
application thereof. It shall be unlawful for any person to name or
attempt to name any such public street or private easement, regardless
of how it was established, with a name other than that name provided for
such public street or private easement by the City Council resolution
adopted pursuant to this Chapter. It shall further be unlawful for any
person to use for any such public street or private easement a name,
which is different from the name established for such public street or
private easement by said City Council resolution.

13.15.100 Procedure for Changing Names of Public Streets and Private
Easements.

Whenever in the judgment of the City Council, the public interest or
convenience shall require that the name of any public street or private
easement be changed, in order to eliminate a duplication of names, or
for any other good or sufficient reason, the City Council may by
resolution change the name or names of any such public street or private
easement forthwith, or may order that the name of any such street be
changed in the manner and at the time hereinafter provided.

13.15.110 Change of Name - Petition.

The owners of lots and land fronting on any public street or private
easement in the City, or the duly authorized agents, may file with the
City Clerk a written petition addressed to the City Council, requesting
that the name of any street or private easement upon which the lots and
lands of said petitioners front be changed. Every such petition must be
signed by the owner or the duly authorized agent of such owner, and must
give the legal or other sufficient description of the property for which
he signs, and the number of feet frontage owned by him or for which he
is a duly authorized agent, and the post office address of the signer
thereof. Every such petition must state the reasons for any such
proposed change of name and may suggest one (1) or more names
satisfactory to said petitioners for any such public street or private
easement. The City Clerk shall present such petition to the City Council
at its next regular meeting.

13.15.120 Change of Name - Resolution.

Before ordering the name of any public street or private easement
changed upon the petition filed as hereinabove stated, the City Council
may, at its discretion, adopt a resolution of intention declaring that
the public interest and convenience require that the name of the public
street or private easement described in any such petition be changed.
Such resolution shall designate the street or easement, the name of
which is intended to change, shall describe said street or easement by
reference to other streets or easements parallel thereto, and shall set
forth the name or names which it bears or by which it is commonly known,
and shall state the name to which it is proposed to be changed. Said
resolution or intention shall be posted in the three (3) public places
designated by the resolution of the City Council. At the expiration of
ten (10) days after the resolution of intention has been posted, if no
written objections to the proposed change of name shall have been filed
with the City Clerk as provided in this Chapter or immediately upon the
overruling of said objections by the City Council, the City Council may
pass a resolution ordering the name of the street or private easement
changed as contemplated in the resolution of intention.

13.15.130 Change of Name - Protest.

The owners of lots or lands fronting on the public street or private
easement, the name of which is proposed to be changed, or the duly
authorized agents, may within ten (10) days after posting of the
resolution of intention, file written objections to the proposed change
of name with the City Clerk. Such written objections must be signed by
each person objecting, shall contain the number of feet frontage owned
by him or for which he is the duly authorized agent, and the post office
address of each signer thereof. The City Council shall at its next
regular meeting after the filing of said objections, fix a time for the
hearing of the same, which shall not be more than two (2) weeks
thereafter. The City Clerk shall thereupon notify each person objecting,
by depositing in the post office of the City a notice addressed to him
postage prepaid, informing him of the time and place of hearing. At the
time specified, the City Council shall hear all objections urged and
pass upon the same, and its decision thereon shall be final and
conclusive.

13.15.140 Definition.

For purposes of this Chapter, the word “street” shall be deemed to
include avenue, highway, easement or right-of-way, boulevard, court,
lane, place, way and alley. The singular shall include the plural and
the plural shall include the singular.

Chapter 13.20
VEHICULAR AND PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION STANDARDS

Sections:

   13.20.010   General Provisions

   13.20.020   Access Control

   13.20.030   Intersection Design Standards

   13.20.040   Residential Street Standards

   13.20.050   Pedestrian Circulation Standards

13.20.010 General Provisions.

   A.   Standards and specifications for transportation facilities and
all work done within the public road right-of-way shall conform to the
standards and specifications of the Engineering Department.

   B.   Right-of-way shall be required as shown on the adopted General
Plan circulation map.

   C.   In instances where roadways are designated on the circulation
plan where no road currently exists, the location and design standards,
including the grade and alignment, will be determined by the Engineering
Department at the time of submittal of street improvement plans for the
individual project.

   D.   Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum paved radius of forty (40) feet
and right-of-way width of fifty (50) feet; length shall not exceed three
hundred thirty (330) feet; provided, that adequate fire flow is
available, unless approved by the Fire Department.

   E.   Acceptable legal and physical access shall be provided to each
site in accordance with the following:

      1.   Acceptable access shall include a public thoroughfare or
right-of-way which is dedicated, deeded or condemned for use as a
principal means of access to abutting property and which is constructed
to acceptable standards for the purpose of carrying through traffic; any
exceptions to these requirements must be approved by the City Engineer;

      2.   Where substandard alleys are located at the rear or sides of
property, such alleys shall be used primarily for service functions,
including but not limited to, trash collection, utility service and fire
access; alleys shall not be intended or used for conveyance of through
traffic, required parking or for primary access;

      3.   Alleys which conform to City standards may be allowed for
secondary access;

      4.   Any existing alleys must conform to standards contained
herein in order to be approved for public use of access;

      5.   Paving for alleyways shall meet specifications of the
Engineering Department;

      6.   Minimum alley right-of-way width shall be thirty (30) feet
and dedication to the City shall be required.

13.20.020 Access Control.

   A.   On new development, no direct driveway access from individual
residences shall be permitted onto major arterial, arterial and
secondary arterial streets as designated on the adopted circulation plan
map.

   B.   Access shall be controlled on major arterials, arterials and
secondary arterials to minimize curb cuts, median breaks and facilitate
the flow of traffic. Any new development or subdivision of land adjacent
to these roadways shall be required to dedicate vehicular access rights,
except where access points are shown on an approved site plan or
subdivision map. Shared access and parking, and use of side streets for
access, shall be required wherever possible.

   C.   All development proposals shall be designed so as to provide for
a free flow of vehicles in and out of the site without unnecessary
backing and turning movements as well as for easy access to the various
activity areas within each site. Two-way access driveways shall be used
wherever possible.

   D.   Placement of access points into each site shall minimize
interference with the off-site circulation system. Access points shall
be placed at the maximum feasible distance from an intersection.

   E.   Adequate provisions shall be made for emergency vehicle access.
Two (2) separate accesses shall be provided to each site from any paved,
publicly maintained right-of-way as determined by the City Engineer. The
primary access shall provide all weather access and be paved to City
standards; minimum specifications for secondary access shall require a
well-graded, all-weather surface as approved by the City Engineer and
Fire Department. Secondary access for new subdivided residential sites
shall be paved. Secondary access requirements shall be based upon such
factors as distance, topography, surrounding development and emergency
response time.

13.20.030 Intersection Design Standards.

Intersection Design Standards shall conform with the Engineering
Department Standards, Drawings and Specifications approved by the City
Engineer.

13.20.040 Residential Street Standards.

Residential Street Standards shall conform with the Engineering
Department Standards, Drawings and Specifications approved by the City
Engineer.

13.20.050 Pedestrian Circulation Standards.

   A.   Sidewalks shall be required on public streets as determined by
the reviewing authority. Sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete,
with a minimum width of six (6) feet, exclusive of the curb. Any
sidewalk constructed within two and one-half (2-1/2) feet from face of
curb shall join to back of curb. Considerations in design are to be
given for handicapped persons so that a clear path of travel of at least
four (4) feet is provided, in accordance with current State and Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act requirements.

   B.   Additional sidewalks on site may be required through the design
review process, the sidewalk system shall provide for a safe, continuous
pedestrian circulation and access system to all parts of the
development. Pedestrian access shall be provided from public streets and
parking lots to building entries, and walkways provided on-site shall
connect with those off-site.

   C.   Pedestrian Circulation Standards shall conform with the
Engineering Department Standards, Drawings and Specifications approved
by the City Engineer.

Chapter 13.25
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sections:

   13.25.010   Scope of General Provisions

   13.25.020   Delegation of Authority

   13.25.030   Reference to Ordinances or Statutes

   13.25.040   Terms and Genders

   13.25.060   Issuance of Permits by City Engineer

   13.25.070   Application - Issuance Fee

   13.25.080   Requirement of Plans

   13.25.090   Performance of Work to Satisfaction of City Engineer

   13.25.100   Fees, Deposits and Bonds

   13.25.110   Permits

   13.25.120   Holding City Harmless

   13.25.130   Notice of Completion of Work

   13.25.140   Relocation of Structures - Removal of Encroachment

   13.25.150   Placement of Material or Obstruction on City Facility

   13.25.160   Interference with City Engineer

   13.25.170   Compliance with House Moving Rules and Regulations

13.25.010 Scope of General Provisions.

These general provisions, rules of construction and definitions shall
govern the construction of this Chapter, unless the provision or the
context provides otherwise.

13.25.020 Delegation of Authority.

Whenever a power is granted to or a duty is imposed upon a public
officer, the power may be exercised or the duty may be performed by a
deputy of the officer or by a person authorized, pursuant to law or
ordinance, by the officer, unless this Chapter expressly provides
otherwise.

13.25.030 Reference to Ordinances or Statutes.

Whenever reference is made to any portion of this Chapter or any other
ordinance or statute, such reference applies to all amendments and
additions now or hereafter made.

13.25.040 Terms and Genders.

The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future,
the present. The masculine gender includes the feminine. The singular
number includes the plural, and the plural, the singular.

13.25.060 Issuance of Permits by City Engineer.

The City Engineer may issue permits, as provided in this Chapter,
authorizing the permittee to do any of the following acts:

   A.   Make or cause to be made any excavation or opening, fill or
obstruction in, over, along, on, across or through any City facility for
any purpose, excepting, however, for or in connection with the
installation of poles, guys and anchors constructed for use under a
franchise for public utility purposes where such poles, guys and anchors
are located outside of the paved or traveled portion of the City
facility;

   B.   Construct or repair, or cause to be constructed or repaired any
curb, sidewalk, gutter, driveway, roadway surface, retaining wall, storm
drain or culvert, water line, sewer line, or work of any nature, or
place, change or renew an encroachment in, over, along, on, across or
through any City facility, excepting, however, for or in connection with
the installation of poles, guys and anchors constructed for use under a
franchise for public utility purposes where such poles, guys and anchors
are located outside of the paved or traveled portion of the City
facility;

   C.   Move or cause to be moved over, upon, along or across any City
facility, any building or structure;

   D.   Place any banner over, across, on or along any City facility;

   E.   Plant, remove, cut, cut down, injure or destroy any tree, shrub,
plant or flower growing within any City facility excepting necessary
pruning or trimming to protect persons or property.

13.25.070 Application - Issuance Fee.

An application for a permit pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter
shall be made in writing and filed with the Engineering Department,
accompanied by the appropriate fee/deposit.

13.25.080 Requirement of Plans.

If, in the opinion of the City Engineer, the work proposed to be done
requires the making of plans or the setting of stakes, or both, the City
Engineer may require the application to be accompanied by the necessary
plans, which plans shall be prepared by a registered civil engineer.

13.25.090 Performance of Work to Satisfaction of City Engineer.

The permittee shall perform all work in accordance with plans, if plans
are made, and specifications referred to in the permit, to the
satisfaction of and under the supervision of the City Engineer.

13.25.100 Fees, Deposits and Bonds.

   A.   Payment. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the City
Engineer shall not issue any permit until all deposits and issuance fees
have been paid.

   B.   Issuance Fees not Refundable. The issuance fees required by the
provisions of this Chapter are for the purpose of defraying the cost of
issuing the requested permit. No part of any issuance fee may be
refunded to any applicant.

   C.   Deposit in Funds. Issuance fees and charges for repairs,
inspection or engineering collected under the provisions of this Chapter
shall be deposited in the respective funds from which the corresponding
disbursements are made.

   D.   Extra Deposits and Bonds. If, in the opinion of the City
Engineer, any special or general deposit, or any undertaking or any
combination thereof is not sufficient for the proper protection of the
public interest in the highways, including any trees thereon, the City
Engineer may require either an additional deposit or an increase in the
amount of the bond in such amount as he determines will be sufficient to
protect such public interest.

   E.   Insufficient Deposits.

      1.   Where any deposit is determined to be insufficient to pay all
fees and costs provided for in this Chapter, the permittee shall, upon
demand, pay to the commissioner an amount equal to the deficiency.

      2.   Where the permittee fails or refuses to pay the deficiency
upon demand, the City Engineer may recover the deficiency by appropriate
action in any court of competent jurisdiction. Until such deficiency is
paid in full, no permit shall be issued to such permittee.

13.25.110 Permits.

   A.   Issuance of Permit Public Record. If the applicant for a permit
complies with every provision of this Chapter and with all applicable
provisions of all other ordinances and statutes, the City Engineer shall
issue to the applicant a written permit to perform the work set forth in
the application. Upon the issuance of such permit the application shall
become a public record.

   B.   Imposition of Conditions or Changes by City Engineer.

      1.   Any permit authorized under any of the provisions of this
Chapter may be issued subject to such conditions, changes and
limitations as are, in the discretion of the City Engineer, necessary
for the protection of the City facility, or to prevent undue
interference with traffic, or to protect both persons and property
within, upon or adjacent to said City facility from damage or danger.

      2.   The City Engineer may issue a single permit for any number of
excavations which are part of a single project. The permit may be
exercised by giving not less than forty-eight (48) hours notice to the
City Engineer on a form to be prescribed by the City Engineer before
work is commenced.

   C.   Reservation of the Power to Change the Conditions After Permit
Issued. Any permit issued by the City Engineer under any of the
provisions of this Chapter or the conditions to which it has been made
subject, may be amended or changed if the City Engineer deems such
amendment or change to be necessary for the protection of a City
facility, or to prevent undue interference, or to protect both persons
and property. Notification of the amendment or change shall be made by
the City Engineer either by mailing written notice to the permittee at
the address indicated on his application for the permit or by making
personal service of said written notice upon the permittee. The
amendment or change shall be effective either twenty-four (24) hours
after said written notice is deposited in the United States mail or
immediately upon completion of personal service.

   D.   Commencement and Completion of Work. Every permittee shall
complete the work within the time required by the permit. Permits issued
hereunder shall be valid only for the period of time specified in the
permits, unless the City Engineer grants a time extension.

   E.   Refusal to Issue Permit. The City Engineer may refuse to issue
permits or may revoke any outstanding permits heretofore or hereafter
issued, or any portion thereof, where the work has not been started,
when file work authorized by the permits, or such portions thereof is
included in the proposed work to be done, by any existing assessment
district, or by any proposed assessment district for which formation
proceedings have been instituted by the City Council.

   F.   Nontransferability of Permits. Permits issued pursuant to this
Chapter are nontransferable.

   G.   Permits Subject to the Use of the City Facilities by Others.
Every permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall be
granted subject to the right of the City or of any other person entitled
thereto, to use that part of such City facility for any purpose for
which such City facility may lawfully be used.

13.25.120 Holding City Harmless.

On each application, the applicant shall sign a statement that he agrees
to preserve and save harmless the City and each officer and employee
thereof pursuant to Section 1.10.050 of this Code.

13.25.130 Notice of Completion of Work.

Upon completion of any work or act for which a permit has been granted,
the permittee shall notify the City Engineer in writing on a form
prescribed by the City Engineer.

13.25.140 Relocation of Structures - Removal of Encroachment.

   A.   The City Engineer may require any person who, pursuant to a duly
issued permit under this Chapter, has performed construction work or
placed and maintained any encroachment, to move the same at his own cost
and expense to such different location as is specified in a written
demand of the City Engineer, whenever such move is necessary to ensure
the safety of the public or to permit the improvement of the facilities
and may require the application to contain a signed statement by the
applicant to this effect.

   B.   In the event the permittee fails to comply with any such demand,
the construction work or encroachment specified in the demand may be
removed by the City Engineer; and the cost thereof will be recovered
from the permittee.

13.25.150 Placement of Material or Obstruction on City Facility.

No person shall place or pile any material in or upon any City facility
or leave any obstruction or impediment to travel in or upon any City
facility without a permit to do so.

13.25.160 Interference with City Engineer.

A person shall not prevent or obstruct the City Engineer, or his duly
authorized representative, in making any inspection authorized by this
Chapter or in taking any sample or in making any test.

13.25.170 Compliance with House Moving Rules and Regulations.

The permittee shall comply with the House Moving Rules and Regulations,
as amended, except to the extent that such rules and regulations are
expressly modified or deleted in the permit.

Chapter 13.30
CONSTRUCTION PERMITS

Sections:

   13.30.010   Scope of Chapter

   13.30.020   Application

   13.30.030   Permit Deposits and Refunds

   13.30.040   Warning Signs and Precautionary Measures

   13.30.050   Certification of Acceptance

   13.30.060   Removal of Material and Debris

   13.30.070   Failure of Permittee to Protect the Road or the Traveling
Public or Complete the Work

13.30.010 Scope of Chapter.

The provisions of this Chapter apply to applications for the granting
and control of permits for the laying, constructing, reconstructing or
repairing of curbs, sidewalks, gutters, driveways, street surfaces,
retaining walls, water and sewer facilities, storm drains, culverts or
other appurtenant street structures in any highway.

13.30.020 Application.

An applicant for a construction permit shall complete and file with the
City Engineer an application in duplicate, conforming with the
provisions of Section 13.25.070 which shall contain, in addition
thereto, the following:

   A.   The location, nature and extent of the work to be performed;

   B.   The materials to be used;

   C.   The proposed date and time of day when said work will be
commenced;

   D.   The proposed date and time of day when said work will be
completed;

   E.   Such other information as the City Engineer may require.

13.30.030 Permit Deposits and Refunds.

   A.   An applicant for a permit to construct any work shall pay the
appropriate fee or deposit in an amount estimated by the City Engineer
to be equal to twice the actual cost of all necessary engineering and
inspection costs.

   B.   If the cost of the engineering inspection exceeds the amount of
the deposit, the permittee shall pay the deficiency to the City
Engineer. If the applicant fails to pay said deficiency within fifteen
(15) days, the City Engineer may recover such sum in any court of
competent jurisdiction. Until such amount is paid, further permits shall
not be issued.

13.30.040 Warning Signs and Precautionary Measures.

The permittee shall install barriers, barricades and warning devices in
conformance with the standards set forth in the state of California
Traffic Manual for any excavation or construction that may affect the
public or City’s rights-of-way or easements.

13.30.050 Certification of Acceptance.

If the City Engineer, by survey or by inspection or by both, ascertains
that the work contemplated by this Chapter has been completed according
to the requirements of the permit issued therefor, and of all of the
provisions of this Chapter, he shall issue, if requested so to do by the
permittee, a certificate of acceptance which shall contain a statement
of the location, nature and extent of the work performed under the
permit.

13.30.060 Removal of Material and Debris.

A permittee, upon completion of any work for which a permit under this
Chapter has been issued, shall remove all material and debris:

   A.   Where new work is covered with earth, in accordance with the
terms of the specifications attached to the permit;

   B.   In all other cases within three (3) days.

13.30.070 Failure of Permittee to Protect the Road or the Traveling
Public or Complete the Work.

If a permittee unnecessarily damages the road, creates a hazard or
otherwise endangers the traveling public, or the road, or fails to
complete the work within the prescribed time, or authorized extension
thereof, the City Engineer may take corrective action. The cost of such
correction work shall be charged against the permittee.

Chapter 13.35
EQUIPMENT MOVING PERMITS

Sections:

   13.35.010   Issuance of Moving Permit - Specific Types of Equipment

   13.35.020   General

   13.35.030   Over Length

   13.35.040   Over Width

   13.35.050   Over Height

   13.35.060   Overweight

   13.35.070   Signs

   13.35.080   Fees

13.35.010 Issuance of Moving Permit - Specific Types of Equipment.

The City Engineer or his designee may, in his discretion, upon
application in writing and if good cause appears, issue a permit
authorizing the applicant to operate or move over and along highways or
routes under the jurisdiction of the City, specific pieces of mobile
mechanical equipment on specific vehicles, or emergency public utility
equipment on specific vehicles. Any such permit shall be subject to the
following conditions.

13.35.020 General.

   A.   Limit of Authorization.

      1.   The permit is valid only on routes under the jurisdiction of
the City.

      2.   The permit is not valid on State highways (includes the
roadway crossing under or over a State freeway). A separate moving
permit will be required on State highways.

      3.   The permit is not valid on streets or bridges which have
posted weight limits.

      4.   The permit shall be limited to specified routes or a
specified area of the City and shall specifically describe the routes or
the area of the City to which it is limited. This limitation shall be
fixed by the City Engineer or his designee so as to afford protection to
routes under the jurisdiction of the City and the traveling public.

      5.   The granting of the permit shall in no way relieve the
permittee from liability for damage to the routes under the jurisdiction
of the City or to persons or property.

      6.   The permit shall be issued for a specific period of time
designated by the City Engineer or his designee and set forth in the
permit, which period shall not exceed one (1) year.

      7.   The permit may be issued subject to such other conditions as
the City Engineer or his designee deems necessary for the protection of
the routes under the jurisdiction of the City.

      8.   The application for a permit pursuant to this Section shall
be made on a form furnished by the City Engineer or his designee and
shall contain the information required by California Vehicle Code
Section 35781 and such other information as may be required by the City
Engineer or his designee.

   B.   Night Moves. Any load moved during nighttime hours shall meet
all requirements of State and County and City regulations and shall be
properly lighted with warning lights and signs as may be required by law
and ordinance. A pilot car is required for loads over ten (10) feet
wide.

   C.   Parking of Vehicle. A permittee shall not, during restricted
hours or any other time, stand or park the permitted vehicle where it
creates a definite hazard or traffic obstruction. If the vehicle is in
one of the above-mentioned areas at the beginning of a restricted
movement period, it shall continue to move, using reasonable care and
precaution to prevent traffic disruption, to the nearest suitable spot
en route where the load may be parked for the duration of the restricted
period.

   D.   Operating Hours. This permit is effective within the period
stated on the face of the permit. Unless specifically stated otherwise
(see Section 13.35.030), moving is prohibited from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00
a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., and from 5:00 a.m. Saturday until
sunrise Monday.

      No moving during fog, rain or snow and the following holidays:

      News Year’s Day

      Memorial Day

      Fourth of July

      Labor Day

      Thanksgiving

      Christmas

   E.   Permit to be Carried on Vehicle. A permit is valid only when it
is carried on the permitted vehicle.

   F.   Permit Subject to Inspection. A permit is the property of the
Engineering Department and must be surrendered upon demand to any law
enforcement officer or employee of the Engineering Department charged
with the care and protection of highways.

   G.   Comply with Applicable Laws. Except as specifically provided in
the permit, the requirements of the California Vehicle Code and any
other applicable laws must be complied with in all particulars.

13.35.030 Over Length.

   A.   Pilot Cars. Pilot cars are required fore and aft when the
overall length is one hundred (100) feet long or over, unless otherwise
specified on the face of the permit. The pilot cars shall display
additional signs as set forth in Section 13.35.070.

   B.   Restricted Hours. Any overall length of one hundred (100) feet
long or over will be restricted to the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
and may not move from 5:00 a.m. Saturday until sunrise Sunday.

   C.   Inspection. Any overall length of one hundred (100) feet long or
over is subject to inspection by the Engineering Department and must be
arranged for twenty-four (24) hours before the scheduled move.

   D.   Keep to Right of Center Line. The load must be kept to the right
of the highway center line at all times and must stay off shoulders
except when entering or leaving the highway or when necessary to allow
trailing traffic to pass on narrow or winding roads.

13.35.040 Over Width.

   A.   Pilot Cars. Pilot cars displaying signs the same as specified in
Section 13.35.070 shall be provided by the permittee both fore and aft
when the load is fourteen (14) feet wide or more and shall provide for
either fore or aft for loads over twelve (12) feet wide (two [2] or
three [3] lanes fore, four [4] or more lanes aft).

   B.   Restricted Hours. Any load or vehicle fourteen (14) feet wide or
wider shall be restricted to moving during the hours of 11:00 p.m. to
5:00 a.m. and may not move from 5:00 a.m. Saturday until Monday. Any
load or vehicle over ten (10) feet wide, but less than fourteen (14)
feet wide, shall not move between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
and 3:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and from 3:00 a.m.
Saturday until sunrise Monday.

   C.   Inspection. Any load fourteen (14) feet or over is subject to
inspection by the Engineering Department and must be arranged for
twenty-four (24) hours before scheduled move.

13.35.050 Over Height.

   A.   Impaired Vertical Clearance. It shall be the responsibility of
the permittee to check all underpasses, bridges, overhead wires or other
structures for impaired vertical clearance and to bypass or arrange
clearance at such locations.

   B.   Overhead Lines. The permittee must notify the owner of all
overhead lines subject to disturbance or damage by his operation at
least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of work, and mutually agreeable
arrangements must be made between the parties involved.

   C.   Snooter and Roof Boards. Snooter and roof boards are required
from eighteen (18) feet high to above the highest point of load. Any
load in excess of twenty (20) feet shall be provided with a means of
access to the highest point.

   D.   Restricted Hours. All loads eighteen (18) feet high or higher
shall be moved during the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. and may not
move from 6:00 a.m. on Saturday until 12:01 a.m. Monday.

   E.   Pilot Cars. A pilot car displaying signs the same as specified
in Section 13.35.070 shall be provided for all loads eighteen (18) feet
high or higher.

   F.   Inspection. Any load eighteen (18) feet or over is subject to
inspection by the Engineering Department and must be arranged for
twenty-four (24) hours before the scheduled move.

13.35.060 Overweight.

   A.   Allowable Overweight. Axle weights shall not exceed those shown
on the face of the permit.

   B.   All gross loads in excess of seventy-five (75) tons shall not
exceed five (5) miles per hour when approaching any crossing or
structure.

13.35.070 Signs.

   A.   Unless specifically stated otherwise on the face of the permit,
all loads or vehicles being moved in the City under the provisions of
California Vehicle Code Section 35780 exceeding one hundred (100) inches
in width, exceeding legal length, or fourteen (14) feet in height when
loaded, or with more than ten (10) feet of overhang must display
appropriate warning signs. All signs shall be removed immediately upon
completion of the move.

   B.   Signs shall be posted on front and rear and shall read “OVERSIZE
LOAD,” “WIDE LOAD,” or “LONG LOAD,” or as appropriate for front or rear
overhang. The “OVERSIZE LOAD” sign shall have preference when a
combination of features exist. The lettering shall be a ten (10) inch
minimum height with a two (2) inch minimum brush stroke and a minimum of
one (1) inch border all around. All signs shall be black letters on a
yellow background mounted at least eighteen (18) inches above the road
surface front and rear. Signs must be neat, clean, legible, mounted
securely and visible from straight ahead or behind and to forty-five
(45) degrees each side thereof. All signs must be illuminated for night
moves or be constructed of suitable reflectorized material to be clearly
visible to approaching traffic.

13.35.080 Fees.

All fees for single trip or annual transportation permits shall be
established by resolution of the City Council.

Chapter 13.40
EXCAVATION PERMITS

Sections:

   13.40.010   Purpose of Chapter

   13.40.020   Application

   13.40.030   Proof of Right to Use Street(s)

   13.40.040   Special Deposit for Surface Repairs

   13.40.050   Specification in Permit for Warning Signs

   13.40.060   Precautionary Warning Measures

   13.40.070   Refilling Excavation or Removal of Obstruction

   13.40.080   Resurfacing of Street(s)

   13.40.090   Deductions from Deposits and Refund of Excess Deposit

   13.40.100   Additional Street(s) Repairs and Placing of a Bond for
that Purpose

   13.40.110   Necessity as Permissive Delay in Obtaining Permit

   13.40.120   Certificate of Acceptance

   13.40.130   Removal of Material and Debris

13.40.010 Purpose of Chapter.

The provisions of this Chapter apply to the making of applications for
and the granting and control of permits for the making of excavations,
openings, fills or obstructions in any street(s).

13.40.020 Application.

An applicant for an excavation permit shall complete and file with the
City Engineer an application in duplicate conforming with the provisions
of Section 13.25.070 which shall contain, in addition thereto, the
following:

   A.   The location, dimensions, purpose, extent and nature of the work
to be performed;

   B.   The proposed date and time of day when said work will be
commenced;

   C.   The proposed date and time of day when said work will be
completed;

   D.   Such other information as the City Engineer may require and
shall file with the application a plat in quadruplicate clearly showing
the street(s) affected and the exact locations and dimensions of the
proposed excavations, as well as any other details that the City
Engineer prescribes, provided, however, that when excavations are made
for service connections or for the location of trouble in conduits or
pipes, or for making repairs thereto, the City Engineer may waive the
filing of a plat.

13.40.030 Proof of Right to Use Street(s).

Each applicant for a permit shall file with the City Engineer, if
required by the City Engineer, proof of the applicant’s right to use the
street(s) for the purposes set forth in the application.

13.40.040 Special Deposit for Surface Repairs.

Each applicant for a permit, in addition to the payment of the issuance
fee, shall deposit with the City Engineer a sum of money in no event
less than ten dollars ($10.00), which is twice the estimated cost to the
nearest five dollars ($5.00) for repairing the surface of the street(s)
which may be damaged or destroyed by the proposed excavation or
obstruction, provided, however, that where a faithful performance bond
is posted which guarantees to the City the repair of the street(s),
including construction financed in whole or in part by special
assessments, no deposits for repairs shall be required of applicant.

13.40.050 Specification in Permit for Warning Signs.

In any permit issued by him, the City Engineer may specify what lights,
barriers, barricades, warning signs or other measures designed to
protect the traveling public must be erected by the permittee, which
measures shall be in accordance with State street(s) regulations.

13.40.060 Precautionary Warning Measures.

   A.   If the permit does not specify the precautionary measures to be
taken by the permittee, such as the erection of barriers, barricades or
warning signs, the permittee shall place and maintain warning lights at
each end of such excavation or obstruction and at distances of not more
than fifty (50) feet along such excavation or obstruction from sunset of
each day to sunrise of the next day, until such excavation is entirely
refilled and resurfaced or such obstruction is removed; and every said
person shall place and maintain barriers, or barricades, at each end of
any said excavation or obstruction at all times until such excavation is
entirely refilled or such obstruction is removed.

   B.   Barriers, barricades and warning devices shall conform to the
same configuration and standards provided for in the current Engineering
Department standards as compiled in accordance with Vehicle Code Section
21400.

13.40.070 Refilling Excavation or Removal of Obstruction.

   A.   Immediately upon completion of the work necessitating the
excavation or obstruction permitted by any permit issued pursuant to
this Chapter, the permittee shall promptly, and in a workmanlike manner,
refill the excavation or remove the obstruction in a manner which the
City Engineer determines is most effective to accomplish thorough
consolidation and enable the street(s) to be restored to a condition
equivalent to that in which it was prior to the excavation or
obstruction.

   B.   After refilling has been completed, the top surface of
excavations made in improved streets shall be covered with not less than
one (1) inch nor more than two (2) inches of pre-mixed bituminous
material satisfactory to the City Engineer and shall conform closely
enough to the level of the adjoining surface and shall be compacted so
that it is hard enough and smooth enough to be safe for pedestrian
travel over it as well as for vehicular traffic to pass safely over it
at a legal rate of speed. The permittee shall maintain the surface of
the refill safe for pedestrian and vehicular traffic until the
excavation has been resurfaced in accordance with Section 13.40.080.

   C.   Failure to Refill Excavation. If any permittee fails or refuses
to refill any excavation which he has made or remove any obstruction
which he has placed in any street(s), the City Engineer may so do and
charge the cost thereof to the permittee.

   D.   Notice of Refilling Excavation. Upon completion of the refilling
of the excavation for which a permit has been issued, the permittee
shall notify the City Engineer in writing on a form prescribed by the
City Engineer.

13.40.080 Resurfacing of Street(s).

   A.   Upon completion of the refilling of the excavation, the City
Engineer, at his option, may require the permittee to resurface that
portion of the street(s) surface damaged by the permittee’s excavation
or obstruction, or the City Engineer may elect to do such resurfacing
himself. Where the pavement or surface has been removed, the permittee
shall replace it to a thickness of one (1) inch greater than that of the
surrounding pavement or surface, and, in no event, to a thickness less
than two (2) inches.

   B.   Where a treated or modified subgrade or surface has been removed
or destroyed, the permittee shall replace it to a thickness of not less
than that of the surrounding or adjacent subgrade or surface, unless the
City Engineer orders that the repair of such treated or modified
subgrade or surface shall be made by an oil and rock mixture, in which
case the thickness shall not be less than one-half (1/2) the thickness
of the treated or modified surface or subgrade.

   C.   Failure to Resurface Street(s). If, after the refilling of an
excavation the permittee fails or refuses to resurface that portion of
the surface of the street(s) damaged by him, or if the City Engineer
elects to do such resurfacing, the City Engineer may do such
resurfacing. The cost of such resurfacing shall be charged against the
permittee except in those instances where the permittee’s excavation is
within an area of pavement to be immediately reconstructed by the City,
and the resurfacing of the excavation is an integral part of the general
City improvement. The cost shall be computed as provided in Section
13.40.040.

13.40.090 Deductions from Deposits and Refund of Excess Deposit.

   A.   The City Engineer shall deduct from any deposit made or
maintained by the permittee:

      1.   The permit issuance fee if that has not otherwise been paid;

      2.   The cost to the City for refilling any excavation or removing
any obstruction;

      3.   The cost to the City for resurfacing the street(s);

      4.   The cost of any inspection by the City Engineer.

   B.   After making the proper deductions, the City Engineer shall
refund any remaining amount to the applicant in the same manner as
provided by law for the repayment of trust moneys, provided, however,
that if a person makes and maintains with the City Engineer either a
general deposit or an undertaking as provided by this Section, the
deductions provided for herein need not be made. In lieu of such
deductions, the City Engineer may bill such persons for the amount owed
by him to the City, under the provisions of this Section. If such amount
is not paid within fifteen (15) days of the transmission of such bill,
the City Engineer may deduct such amount from the general deposit, and
the provisions of Section 13.25.100.E. shall apply, or may recover upon
such undertaking.

13.40.100 Additional Street(s) Repairs and Placing of a Bond for that
Purpose.

   A.   The street(s) surface excavated or damaged shall be replaced by
the permittee to as good or better condition as the same was in before
such work was begun and shall be maintained for the life of the utility
encroaching in the public road after the completion of the work
performed under the permit, during which life time period the permittee
shall repair and make good any injury or damage to any portion of the
street(s) which occurs as a result of work done under the permit,
including any and all injury and damage to the street(s) which would not
have occurred had such work under said permit not been done.

   B.   The permittee shall maintain a bond with the City Engineer in an
amount prescribed by the City Engineer sufficient to comply with the
repairs required in this Section, which shall be forfeited and the
proceeds used by the City Engineer to perform the necessary repair work
prescribed by this Section in the event the permittee fails to make said
repairs.

13.40.110 Necessity as Permissive Delay in Obtaining Permit.

Nothing in this Chapter prohibits any person from maintaining by virtue
of any law, ordinance, or permit, any pipe or conduit in any street(s),
or from making such excavation as may be necessary for the preservation
of life or property, if the person making such excavation obtains a
permit therefor within one (1) day after the offices of the City
Engineer are first opened subsequent to the making of such excavation.

13.40.120 Certificate of Acceptance.

If the City Engineer, by survey or by inspection or by both, ascertains
that the work contemplated by this Chapter has been completed according
to the requirements of the permit issued therefor, and of all of the
provisions of this Section, he shall issue, if requested so to do by the
permittee, a certificate of acceptance which shall contain a statement
of the location, nature and extent of the work performed under the
permit.

13.40.130 Removal of Material and Debris.

A permittee, upon completion of any work for which a permit under this
Chapter has been issued, shall remove all material and debris:

   A.   Where new work is covered with earth, in accordance with the
terms of the specifications attached to the permit;

   B.   In all other cases within three (3) days.

Chapter 13.45
FILMING AND VIDEO TAPING PERMITS

Sections:

   13.45.010   Purpose

   13.45.030   Permit Required

   13.45.040   Exemptions

   13.45.050   Application Form

   13.45.060   Time for Filing Applications

   13.45.070   Fees

   13.45.080   Determination by City Manager

   13.45.090   Appeal to the City Council

   13.45.100   Public Facilities

   13.45.110   Clean Up

   13.45.120   Traffic Control

   13.45.130   Special Restrictions

   13.45.140   Insurance and Indemnity

   13.45.150   Suspension

   13.45.160   Revocation

   13.45.170   Violation as a Nuisance

13.45.010 Purpose.

The purpose of this Chapter is to provide rules and regulations
governing the issuance of permits for filming, video taping or any
related activity on location within the City, to assure that such
activity is consistent with considerations of the public health, safety
and general welfare and the protection of property. The requirements
provided in this Chapter shall be separate and in addition to those
provisions of ordinances of the City, and/or other Codes adopted by
reference, regarding business regulation and licensing. Any and all fees
provided in this Chapter are intended to cover the cost of investigation
and processing permits for filming, as specified herein, and shall be in
addition to all other applicable licenses and/or permits.

13.45.030 Permit Required.

Except as otherwise provided, it is unlawful for any person to engage in
the business or activity of filming, video taping or producing motion
pictures on motion picture film or electronic video tape for public
exhibition as motion pictures or for television, at any place within the
City, other than at or in an established motion picture or television
studio or entirely within an enclosed structure or building, with no
outside storage of filming equipment, without a film permit from the
City. Any person interested in filming within the City shall complete in
full a film permit application as stated in this Chapter and provide to
City all the information requested in Section 13.45.050.

13.45.040 Exemptions.

The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to:

   A.   The filming or video taping of motion pictures solely for
private or family use;

   B.   The filming or videotaping of motion pictures for use in a
criminal investigation, civil proceeding or emergencies such as fires,
floods or police actions;

   C.   The filming or video taping of motion pictures for news purposes
(but not magazine or documentary programs);

   D.   Education, government and public access and local origination
programs for cable television systems franchised within the City;

   E.   The filming or video taping of motion pictures by the City
itself (e.g., video taping of sewer lines and promotional filming); and

   F.   Any other activity deemed to be in the public interest by the
City Manager.

13.45.050 Application Form.

The Finance Department shall furnish an application for film permits
which, following processing by the Finance Department, shall be
forwarded to the City Manager. Such application form shall require the
following information:

   A.   Name, permanent street address and telephone number of the
applicant;

   B.   If the applicant is a corporation, the name, principal address
and telephone number of the applicant shall be as shown in the most
recent statement of corporation on file with the applicable Secretary of
State;

   C.   If the filming or video taping for motion picture or television
production is conducted by a non-profit organization which qualifies
under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) or California Revenue and
Taxation Code Section 23701 as a charitable organization, and no person,
directly or indirectly, receives a profit from the marketing or
production of the film or tape or from showing the film, tapes or
photos, the applicant must state this on the application form;

   D.   Name, address and telephone number of the person in charge of
the location and responsible for applicant’s and applicant’s employees’
conduct;

   E.   The name, address and twenty-four (24) hour telephone number of
at least two (2) persons to be contacted in the event of emergency
situations which might alter the conditions of the film permit;

   F.   Name of film/project;

   G.   Location(s), date(s), time(s) and activities of the proposed
filming or taping. If the proposed filming or taping involves the use of
private property, the full name and address of the property owner where
the filming/taping is to take place and a signed affidavit from the
property owner granting permission for the proposed use of the property
in question shall be provided;

   H.   Approximate number of individuals in cast and crew;

   I.   List of types and number of vehicles and other equipment;

   J.   As applicable, a statement that overnight parking and locations
are needed;

   K.   Requests for special assistance at the location, including but
not limited to street closure, traffic control and emergency services;

   L.   Special conditions or requests by the applicant;

   M.   Dated signature of applicant;

   N.   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall be
signed by two (2) principal officers of the corporation; and

   O.   In addition to the provisions of this Chapter, any applicant who
or which will engage in any activity which requires compliance with any
federal, state or local regulations, including additional licenses or
permits, shall present evidence of satisfactory compliance with such
regulations.

13.45.060 Time for Filing Applications.

   A.   Applications shall be presented to the Finance Department at
least ten (10) business days in advance of the time that the proposed
filming, taping or production is to commence when road closures are
required, four (4) business days when traffic control will exceed three
(3) minutes or when streets or specified special effects are to be
performed and at least two (2) business days in all other cases.

   B.   The time for application processing shall be extended during
those periods when the City is required to wait for the issuance of
permits from other agencies and or public entities, for which it has
applied.

13.45.070 Fees.

   A.   Each application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
application and investigation fee payable to the City which amount shall
be set by resolution of the City Council; provided, however, that no fee
shall be required of applicants filming or video taping for motion
picture or television production for charitable purposes, as defined in
this Chapter.

   B.   In the event that weather conditions or other circumstances
beyond the control of the permittee require that the date(s) or time(s)
of the proposed filming or taping need to be altered, no additional
application and investigation fee shall be required because of such
alteration of the date(s) or time(s) so long as the City Clerk is given
at least one (1) business day notice of the alternation; but an
additional fee will be charged if minor changes, additions, deletions
and extensions to the original filming permit are requested which are
not beyond the control of the permittee. The additional fee shall be set
by resolution of the City Council. A minor change, addition, deletion or
extension to the original filming permit request must be filed with the
Finance Department. Only one (1) such request per permit will be
allowed.

   C.   If the City Manager determines that any potential danger to the
public’s health, safety or general welfare, or property would be
eliminated by the presence of police or fire protection at the site of
the filming or video taping for motion picture or television production,
the City Manager may grant the film permit upon condition that the
permittee pay in advance to the City the costs of such police or fire
protection as may be required.

   D.   For filming permits which necessitate the City to provide
services to the permittee in addition to police or fire protection,
service charges shall be imposed. Such charges will be determined by the
applicable servicing City department(s) and shall be based on the actual
cost incurred by the City in providing such services. Such service
charges shall include, but shall not be limited to, charges for labor,
supervision, overhead, administration and the use of any and all City
equipment, supplies, etc. Additional charges may be imposed to cover the
cost of extraordinary film permit investigation and/or staff costs, if
the City Manager feels this is necessary.

13.45.080 Determination by City Manager.

   A.   The City Manager is designated to be the City’s “film permit
coordinator” for purposes of coordinating the processing of the film
permit, as well as the actual filming when the use of public property is
required.

   B.   Before granting any film permit pursuant to this Chapter, the
City Manager shall determine that such filming or video taping for
motion picture or television production will not unreasonably interfere
with the public health, safety and general welfare, or unreasonably
endanger any property. In making this determination, the City Manager
shall take into consideration the noise, traffic hazards, fire hazards
and other environmental problems, including health and safety problems,
which are likely to be caused by such activities. In granting the
permit, the City Manager may further impose any reasonable conditions as
are necessary to protect the public health, safety and general welfare
or property.

13.45.090 Appeal to the City Council.

   A.   Any applicant aggrieved by any decision of the City Manager with
respect to a film permit may appeal such decision to the City Council by
filing a written request within ten (10) days following notice of such
decision.

   B.   A written request for such appeal shall be filed with the
Finance Department and all such requests shall contain the following
information:

      1.   The name and address of the applicant;

      2.   The date of the decision in question;

      3.   The reasons for the appeal; and,

      4.   The grounds relied upon for relief.

         The appeal request shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
appeal fee in an amount to be set by resolution by the City Council.
Upon receipt of the appeal request, the Finance Department will request
the City Clerk to, and the City Clerk shall, set the matter for hearing
at a regular meeting of the City Council no later than thirty (30) days
following the date the appeal was filed. Notice of the time and place of
the hearing shall be mailed to the applicant, by certified mail, no
later than ten (10) days prior to the date set for hearing. The notice
may also designate certain records that the applicant is required to
produce at the time of the hearing.

   C.   At the hearing as prescribed by this Section, the applicant and
the City may submit any and all evidence as they believe to be relevant.
The City Council may require the presentation of additional evidence
from either the applicant or the City, or from both, and may continue
the hearing from time to time for the purpose of allowing the
presentation of additional evidence. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the
City Council may, by resolution with findings, approve, reverse or
modify the decision of the City Manager and any such decision of the
City Council shall be final.

13.45.100 Public Facilities.

Use of any public facility within the City may require an additional
rental or use agreement.

13.45.110 Clean Up.

A permittee shall conduct operations in an orderly fashion. The area
used shall be cleaned of trash and debris upon completion and before
leaving the site(s). A deposit to assure that a permittee removes all
trash and debris from filming site(s) may be required. This requirement
and the amount thereof shall be determined by the City Manager.

13.45.120 Traffic Control.

For filming that would impair traffic flow, an applicant shall use City
law enforcement personnel.

   A.   If required for traffic safety or as a condition of the film
permit, an applicant shall furnish and install advance warning signs and
any other traffic control devices in conformance with the Manual of
Traffic Controls, State of California, Department of Transportation. All
appropriate safety precautions shall be taken.

   B.   All interruptions of normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic must
be authorized on the permit. Police officers assigned to on-site
supervision may further restrict operations based on safety concerns.

   C.   Traffic shall not be detoured without prior approval by the
City.

   D.   Unless authorized by the City, camera cars shall be driven in
the direction of traffic and shall observe all traffic laws.

   E.   Any emergency road work or construction by State or local
government agencies and/or private contractors under permit or contract
to the City shall have priority over filming activities.

13.45.130 Special Restrictions.

For the convenience of the general public, all activity by a permittee
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. may be restricted. As a
condition of film permit approval, all surrounding residents and/or
businesses within a three hundred (300) foot radius of the filming
activity may be required to be notified of date(s) and time(s) in which
late evening and early morning filming is to take place.

13.45.140 Insurance and Indemnity.

   A.   It shall be a condition of the issuance and continued validity
of any film permit granted pursuant to this Chapter that the permittee
first obtain, pay for, and maintain a policy of general liability
insurance approved as to form by the City Attorney which shall insure
the City, its officers and employees against any liability, or claims of
liability, brought or made by or on behalf of any person for personal
injury or property damage caused by or arising out of any act or
omission of the permittee, his agents or employees, including any
officers or employees of the City, or caused by or arising out of the
condition of any City-owned or controlled property, whether real or
personal, and occurring during the film permit period and as a result of
the activities for which such film permit was issued. The amount of
coverage to be provided by such policy shall be determined by the City
Manager. The permittee may satisfy the requirement imposed by this
Section through the presentation of a certificate of insurance, for at
least the required amount of coverage, which indicates that, by
endorsement thereto, the City, its officers, and employees have been
added as additional insureds. Such certificates shall additionally
provide that the required insurance will not be modified, changed, or
terminated unless prior written notice thereof has been transmitted to
the City Cerk.

   B.   A bond/cash deposit may also be required for purposes of
repairing any damage and restoring the City’s facilities to their
original condition. The amount shall be determined by the City Manager.
In the event of such damage, the City shall provide written notice to
the permittee specifying the damage to be repaired and/or City
facilities to be restored within seven (7) days of receipt of the
notice. If, after providing permittee with such written notice, the
requested repairs and/or restoration of City facilities have not been
commenced or completed, the City may draw upon the bond/cash deposit to
effect the repairs and/or restoration of City facilities. In the event
of damage requiring emergency repairs and/or restoration of City
facilities by the City, the permittee shall be required to reimburse the
City in full for all costs incurred within thirty (30) days receipt of
an invoice from the City.

   C.   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any film permit
granted pursuant to this Chapter that the permittee shall agree to
defend and to hold the City, and its officers and employees, free and
harmless from and against any and all claims and liability of any kind
whatsoever resulting from or arising out of the issuance of such film
permit.

13.45.150 Suspension.

Any film permit issued pursuant to the terms of this Chapter may be
subject to immediate suspension if it is found necessary for the
protection of public health, safety or general welfare. Such suspension
shall only be instituted upon the determination of the City that
immediate protective action is necessary. In the event of such a
suspension, the City Manager shall, within twenty-four (24) hours after
the suspension: (1) cause to be served upon the film permit holder a
written statement containing the grounds for suspension and a notice of
hearing to show cause before the City Manager as to why the film permit
should not be suspended pending revocation hearings; and (2) cause to be
served upon the film permit holder a notice of revocation hearing before
the City Council as provided in Section 13.45.160. The hearing before
the City Manager shall be held not later than five (5) days following
the service of the notice to the film permit holder.

13.45.160 Revocation.

   A.   Any film permit granted or issued pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter may be revoked after a public hearing before the City
Council. A film permit may be revoked under the following circumstances:

      1.   Where it has been determined that the permittee has violated
or has failed to comply with any of the terms or conditions of the film
permit;

      2.   Where it has been determined that the permittee has violated
or has failed to comply with any of the ordinances, resolutions or
applicable regulations of the City;

      3.   Where it has been determined that the film permit has been
granted pursuant to false or fraudulent information contained in the
film permit application;

      4.   Where it has subsequently been determined that the filming
activity will fail to meet the criteria enumerated in this Chapter for
granting a film permit; or

      5.   Where it has been determined that the preservation of the
public health, safety and general welfare demand revocation of the film
permit.

   B.   A notice of the revocation shall be mailed to the permittee, by
certified mail, stating the grounds for the revocation and providing a
date within thirty (30) days of the mailing of such notice for a public
hearing before the City Council. Upon the conclusion of the public
hearing, the City Council may, by resolution with findings, revoke or
modify the film permit; and the decision of the City Council shall be
final and conclusive as to all matters in controversy.

13.45.170 Violation as a Nuisance.

Any filming, video taping or related activities conducted contrary to
the provisions of this Chapter shall be and is declared to be an
unlawful action and a public nuisance. The City may commence an action
at law or in equity in the name of the City in any court of competent
jurisdiction against the permit holder to ensure compliance with the
terms and provisions of this Chapter. All remedies prescribed herein
will be cumulative and the use of any one (1) or more remedies by the
City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of
enforcing the provisions of this Chapter.

Chapter 13.50
MOVING PERMIT REGULATIONS

Sections:

   13.50.010   Scope of Chapter

   13.50.020   Application

   13.50.030   Approval by Building and Safety Department

   13.50.040   Time Limit City Engineer to Act on Permit Application

   13.50.050   Trees

   13.50.060   Classification of Buildings and Structures

   13.50.070   Compliance of Permit with the State Weight Limits

   13.50.080   Amount of Deposit

   13.50.090   Display of Permit

   13.50.100   Appointment of a Supervising Moving Inspector

   13.50.110   Construction of Runways

   13.50.120   Restoration of Street

   13.50.130   Warning Lights for Moving of Buildings or Structures

   13.50.140   Deductions from Deposits and Refund of Deposits

   13.50.150   Maintenance of General Deposit or Undertaking in Lieu of
Deductions

   13.50.160   Issuance of Moving Permit - Specific Types of Equipment

13.50.010 Scope of Chapter.

The provisions of this Chapter apply to the making of applications for
and granting and control of permits for the moving of buildings and
structures.

13.50.020 Application.

An applicant for a moving permit shall complete and file with the City
Engineer an application in duplicate conforming with the provisions of
Section 13.25.070, which shall contain, in addition thereto, the
following:

   A.   The kind of building or structure to be moved;

   B.   The approximate weight thereof, as nearly as may be ascertained;

   C.   The present location of the building or structure;

   D.   The location to which said building or structure is to be moved;

   E.   The proposed route over or along which such building or
structure is to be moved;

   F.   The number of sections in which the building or structure will
be moved;

   G.   The type and number of conveyances upon which the building or
structure is to be moved;

   H.   The proposed date and time of day when the removal of said
building, structure, or portion thereof, is to be commenced;

   I.   The proposed date and time of day when said removal will be
completed.

13.50.030 Approval by Building and Safety Department.

If the building or structure to be moved is subject to regulation by the
Building and Safety Department, the applicant shall obtain and file with
his application a Building and Safety Department approval for the moving
of the building or structure.

13.50.040 Time Limit City Engineer to Act on Permit Application.

Within fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the application for a
moving permit, the City Engineer shall:

   A.   Determine whether or not the moving of any building or structure
as proposed in the application can be accomplished without excessive or
damaging tree trimming;

   B.   Alter or prescribe the route over or along which the building or
structure or portion thereof is to be moved;

   C.   Determine the number of sections in which such building or
structure shall be moved;

   D.   Elect to do or not to do any or all of the tree trimming
rendered necessary by the moving of the building or structure;

   E.   Determine the total estimated cost of such trimming.

13.50.050 Trees.

   A.   City Engineer’s Authority. A permit granted under this Chapter
does not permit, license or allow any person, firm or corporation
whatever, except the City Engineer to trim, prune, cut or deface in any
manner any tree upon any grounds or property belonging to the City or
upon any road or street.

   B.   Supervision of Cutting Trees. At the written request of a roving
contractor holding an unrevoked permit granted pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter, the City Engineer, subject to his election
to so do, as provided in Section 13.50.040, within a reasonable time
after such request, shall, where it will not harm the trees, trim such
trees under his supervision, only to the extent necessary to move the
building or structure to the location specified in the permit.

13.50.060 Classification of Buildings and Structures.

All buildings and structures are classified as follows:

   A.   Class “A” is any building or structure or any portion thereof
which is moved on a motor truck or other vehicle propelled by its own
power;

   B.   Class “B” is any building or structure or any portion thereof,
not of Class “A” which is not more than sixteen (16) feet in width;

   C.   Class “C” is any building or structure or any portion thereof,
not of Class “A” which is more than sixteen (16) feet and not more than
twenty-two (22) feet in width;

   D.   Class “D” is any building or structure or any portion thereof,
not of Class “A” which is more than twenty-two (22) feet and not more
than twenty-eight (28) feet in width;

   E.   Class “E” is any building or structure or any portion thereof,
not of Class “A” which is more than twenty-eight (28) feet and not more
than forty (40) feet in width;

   F.   Class “F” is any building or structure or any portion thereof,
not of Class “A” which is more than forty (40) feet in width.

13.50.070 Compliance of Permit with the State Weight Limits.

The City Engineer shall not issue a permit to move any building or
structure when the weight of such building or structure, plus the weight
of the vehicle or other equipment, exceeds the weight permitted by the
California Vehicle Code; except, that if it appears to the City Engineer
that the size, shape or physical characteristics of the building or
structure or portion thereof, to be moved, or of the street over which
such building or structure is to be moved, makes it impossible or
impracticable to keep within such weight limits, the City Engineer may
issue a permit to move a building or structure on a vehicle every wheel
of which is equipped with pneumatic tires.

13.50.080 Amount of Deposit.

Before any permittee moves any building, structure or portion thereof,
of a class higher than the class for which he has made any general or
special deposit, he shall increase such deposit in an amount sufficient
to cover the class sought to be moved.

13.50.090 Display of Permit.

   A.   The moving contractor shall affix and maintain at all times
while it is on the street, in a conspicuous place on the building or
structure to be moved, the permit for such moving.

   B.   Where a building or structure is moved in more than one (1)
section, and more than one (1) of such sections is moved at the same
time, the moving contractor shall affix and maintain at all times while
they are on the street, in conspicuous places on each section on which
the original permit is not affixed, true copies of such permit.

13.50.100 Appointment of a Supervising Moving Inspector.

The City Engineer may require that the moving of any building or
structure be under the supervision of an inspector to be appointed by
the City Engineer. The permittee shall pay to the City Engineer an
amount equal to the compensation and cost of transportation of such
inspector during the time he is assigned to such inspection.

13.50.110 Construction of Runways.

When so required by the City Engineer, a moving contractor shall place
under each dolly or wheel used in moving the building or structure,
boards or planks of adequate width and strength to carry the load
without being broken, to serve as a runway for such dolly or wheel
during such moving along any portion of any street which has a surface
other than natural soil. The moving contractor shall prevent such dolly
or wheel from ever revolving on or resting on such surface except upon
such board, plank or runway.

13.50.120 Restoration of Street.

The City Engineer may restore, or cause to be restored, every street
damaged by the moving of any building or structure thereon, to a
condition equivalent to that prior to such damage, and may require the
posting of a bond to secure the restoration. The moving contractor who
caused such damage shall pay the cost of the repair thereof to the City
Engineer.

13.50.130 Warning Lights for Moving of Buildings or Structures.

When a building or structure while being moved is located on any street,
at all times between sunset and sunrise, the moving contractor shall
keep and maintain burning a red warning light not over six (6) feet
above the surface of such street at each corner of such building or
structure, and unless the City Engineer otherwise directs, on all sides
and projections thereof at intervals of not more than five (5) feet.

13.50.140 Deductions from Deposits and Refund of Deposits.

   A.   The City Engineer shall deduct from the deposit made or
maintained by each permittee:

      1.   The permit issuance fee if that has not otherwise been paid;

      2.   The cost of the services and transportation of any inspector
appointed pursuant to Section 13.50.100;

      3.   The cost of any repairs made necessary because of the moving
of the building or structure;

      4.   The total cost of all tree trimming done by the City Engineer
made necessary in order to move the building or structure as specified
in the permit, including all such trimming after the moving of the
building or structure to correct trimming done when the structure was
moved.

   B.   The remainder of any such special deposit, if there is any
remainder, shall be refunded to the person, firm or corporation making
such deposit, or to his or its assigns. In the event the deposit made
pursuant hereto is insufficient to pay all fees and deductions provided
for herein, the person, firm or corporation to whom such permit is
issued, shall, upon demand pay to the City Engineer a sufficient sum to
fully cover the same. Such unpaid sums may be recovered by the City
Engineer in any court of competent jurisdiction, and until paid, no
further permit under the provisions of this division shall be issued to
such moving contractor.

13.50.150 Maintenance of General Deposit or Undertaking in Lieu of
Deductions.

If a moving contractor makes and maintains either a general deposit with
the City Engineer or an undertaking as provided in this Chapter, the
deductions provided for in Section 13.50.140 need not be made. In lieu
of such deductions, the City Engineer may bill the moving contractor for
the amount due from him to the City under the provisions of this
Chapter. If, fifteen (15) days after such bill has been sent, the moving
contractor does not pay the same in full, then such amount may be
deducted from his general deposit and the provisions of Section
13.50.140 shall apply, or the City Engineer shall recover upon such
undertaking.

13.50.160 Issuance of Moving Permit - Specific Types of Equipment.

   A.   The City Engineer may, in his discretion, upon application in
writing and if good cause appear, issue a permit authorizing the
applicant to operate or move over and along streets, specific pieces of
mobile mechanical equipment or specific vehicles or specific pieces of
mechanical equipment on specific vehicles, or emergency public utility
equipment on specific vehicles. Any such permit shall be subject to the
following conditions:

      1.   The permit shall be limited to specified streets or a
specified area of the City and shall specifically describe the streets
or the area of the City to which it is limited. This limitation shall be
fixed by the City Engineer so as to afford protection to streets and the
traveling public.

      2.   The granting of the permit shall in no way relieve the
permittee from liability for damage to the streets or to persons or
property.

      3.   The permit shall be issued for a specific period of time
designated by the City Engineer and set forth in the permit, which
period shall not exceed one (1) year.

      4.   The permit may be issued subject to such other conditions as
the City Engineer deems necessary for the protection of the streets and
the traveling public.

   B.   The application for a permit pursuant to this Section shall be
made on a form furnished by the City Engineer and shall contain the
information required by California Vehicle Code Section 35781 and such
other information as may be required by the City Engineer. The
application shall be accompanied by payment of a fee pursuant to the
City fee schedule. Prior to the issuance of any permit, the applicant
shall file with the City Engineer, a surety bond satisfactory to the
City Engineer, for the protection of streets from injury and to provide
indemnity for any damage resulting from the operation or movement under
the permit. The filing of such bond shall, for the purpose of this
Section, constitute compliance with the requirements contained in this
Chapter relating to the deposit of money with the City Engineer. A
single bond may, in the discretion of the City Engineer, be deemed
sufficient security for the issuance of one (1) or more permits to the
same applicant pursuant to this Section.

Chapter 13.55
BLINKER LIGHTS REGULATIONS

Sections:

   13.55.010   Definitions

   13.55.020   Permit for the Use of Blinker Lights

   13.55.030   Application for Permit

13.55.010 Definitions.

The following words and phrases used in this Chapter shall have the
meanings herein ascribed to them:

   A.   “Blinker Light” means a light whether colored or uncolored which
emits an intermittent light.

   B.   “Person” means every natural person, firm, copartnership,
association or corporation.

   C.   “Street” means every public street, alley, lane, court, place,
drive, bridge, viaduct or trestle intended for use or used by the
general public.

13.55.020 Permit for the Use of Blinker Lights.

   A.   No person shall erect or maintain or cause or permit to be
erected or maintained, any blinker light upon or adjacent to any street
within the City whether on public or private property, which emits a
light the same as or similar to highway warning, danger or signal
lights, and which blinker light is so located as to be visible from any
public street unless under and in accordance with the terms of a permit
in writing first obtained from the City Engineer.

   B.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not be deemed to apply to
advertising signs upon private property consisting of continuous or
intermittent lights in the form of illuminated words, letters or figures
or portraying any advertising scene, figure or emblem and so
constructed, arranged and located as to be clearly distinguishable from
a highway warning, danger or signal light.

   C.   Nor shall this Chapter be deemed to apply to any government
lighthouse nor to any warning, danger or signal light heretofore or
hereafter erected or maintained as required by law or under orders of
any board or commission of the State of California.

13.55.030 Application for Permit.

Any person desiring to erect or maintain any blinker light or lights
upon or adjacent to any street so located as to be visible from any
street shall first make application in writing so to do to the City
Engineer, which application shall state the proposed location of such
light or lights, and a brief description of the proposed light or
lights. The City Engineer shall consider every such application, and if
it finds that the blinker light or lights proposed to be erected will
serve as a warning to persons using the street and will tend to increase
the safety of the traveling public, shall issue a permit in writing
authorizing the erection and maintenance of such blinker lights. Such
permit shall be valid until revoked and no charge shall be made for any
such permit.

Chapter 13.60
NEWSRACKS

Sections:

   13.60.010   Purpose

   13.60.015   Definitions

   13.60.020   Prohibition

   13.60.025   Standards for Newsracks Placed on Sidewalks

   13.60.030   Location of Newsracks

   13.60.035   Display and Sale of Harmful Matter to Minors

   13.60.040   Encroachment Permit Requirement

   13.60.045   Impoundment of Newsracks - Corrections or Other Disposal
Authorized

   13.60.050   Return of Impounded Newsracks

   13.60.055   Appeal

   13.60.060   Abandonment

   13.60.065   Insurance

   13.60.070   Violations

   13.60.075   Severability

13.60.010 Purpose.

   A.   The uncontrolled placement of newsracks in public rights-of-way
presents an inconvenience and danger to the safety of persons using such
rights-of-way, including pedestrians, persons entering and leaving
vehicles and buildings, and persons performing essential utility,
traffic control and emergency services.

   B.   Newsracks located as to cause on inconvenience or danger to
persons using public rights-of-way, and unsightly newsracks located
therein, constitute public nuisances.

   C.   The uncontrolled proliferation of newsracks detracts from the
appearance of streets, sidewalks and adjacent business.

   D.   The uncontrolled placement of newsracks may inhibit safe entry
and departure of vehicles, public and private.

   E.   The uncontrolled placement of newsracks impairs the vision and
distracts the attention of motorists and pedestrians, particularly small
children, and may cause injury to the person or property of such
persons.

   F.   The placement of newsracks without a permit based on the
detailed findings in public rights-of-way adjacent to residential areas
detracts from and reduces neighborhood aesthetics and increases the
exposure of residents to noise, traffic volume and hazards and
congestion.

   G.   The uncontrolled placement of newsracks increases the civil
exposure of the City to personal injury and property damages claims.

   H.   City-controlled placement of newsracks provides for and
maintains the freedom of speech and press for newspapers and news
periodicals using dispensing devices for distribution devices.

   I.   This Chapter is enacted in pursuance of and for the purpose of
securing and promoting the public safety and general welfare of persons
in the City in their use of public rights-of-way.

13.60.015 Definitions.

Whenever the following words and phrases are used in this Chapter, they
shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section:

   A.   “Distributor” means the person responsible for placing and
maintaining a newsrack in a public right-of-way.

   B.   “Newsrack” means any self-service or coin-operated box,
container, storage unit, or other dispenser installed, used or
maintained for the display, sale or distribution of publications.

   C.   “Parkway” means the area between the sidewalk and the curb of
the roadway, and where there is no sidewalk, that area between the edge
of the traveled roadway and the edge of a public right-of-way. Parkway
also includes any area within a roadway that is not open to vehicular
travel.

   D.   “Public Right-of-Way” means any place of any nature which is
dedicated to use by the public for pedestrian and vehicular travel, and
includes, but is not limited to, a street, sidewalk, curb, gutter,
crossing, intersection, parkway, highway, alley, lane, mall, court, way,
avenue, boulevard, road, roadway, viaduct, subway, tunnel, bridge,
thoroughfare, park square, and other similar public way.

   E.   “Roadway” means that part of a public right-of-way that is
designated and used primarily for vehicular traffic.

   F.   “Sidewalk” means that part of a public right-of-way that is
designated and ordinarily used for pedestrian travel.

13.60.020 Prohibition.

No person shall place, install, use or maintain any newsrack which rests
in whole or in part upon, in or on any portion of a public right-of-way
or that projects onto, into, or over any part of a public right-of-way
except in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.

13.60.025 Standards for Newsracks Placed on Sidewalks.

Any newsrack which rests in whole or in part upon, in or on any portion
of a public right-of-way or which projects onto, into or over any part
of a public right-of-way shall comply with the standards set forth in
this Section.

   A.   No newsrack shall exceed fifty (50) inches in height,
twenty-seven (27) inches in width, or twenty (20) inches in thickness.

   B.   Newsracks shall be painted black, brown, gray, blue or white.

   C.   No advertising signs or material, other than those dealing with
the name of the publication contained within the newsrack, shall be
displayed on the outside of the newsrack.

   D.   Each newsrack shall be equipped with a coin-return mechanism to
permit a person using the machine to secure an immediate refund in the
event he/she is unable to receive the publication paid for. The
coin-return mechanisms shall be maintained in good working order.
Newsracks dispensing free publications are exempt from this requirement.

   E.   Each newsrack shall have affixed to it in a readily visible
place so as to be seen by anyone using the newsrack, a notice setting
forth the name and address of the distributor and the telephone number
of a working telephone service to call to report a malfunction, or to
secure a refund in the event of a malfunction of the coin-return
mechanism, or to give the notices provided for in this Chapter.

   F.   Each newsrack shall be maintained in a neat and clean condition
and in good repair at all times. Specifically, but without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, each newsrack shall be services and
maintained so that:

      1.   It is reasonably free of dirt and grease;

      2.   It is reasonably free of chipped, faded, peeling or cracked
paint in the visible painted areas thereof;

      3.   It is reasonably free of rust and corrosion in the visible
unpainted metal areas thereof;

      4.   The clear plastic or glass parts thereof, if any, through
which the publication(s) therein are viewed are unbroken and reasonably
free of cracks, dents, blemishes and discoloration;

      5.   The paper or cardboard parts or inserts thereof are
reasonably free of tears, peeling or fading; and

      6.   The structural parts thereof are not broken or unduly
misshapen.

   G.   Newsracks lawfully in existence on April 26, 2006 [the effective
date of this regulation] shall be allowed to remain at the same
location, provided they are not determined to be a public nuisance or
dangerous to the public safety or general welfare, for a period of six
(6) months following adoption of the ordinance codified in this Chapter.
In order to benefit from this Subsection, a distributor must report the
number and location of all newsracks existing within the City as of
April 26, 2006, to the Public Works Department within sixty (60) days of
the effective date of the ordinance codified in this Chapter which shall
compile an inventory of such existing newsracks. Such inventory list
shall be conclusive as to the location and existence of such newsracks.
The distributor must submit an annual update report to the Public Works
Director, including all new locations of its newsracks. Thereafter, all
such newsracks shall be required to comply with all provisions of this
Chapter.

13.60.030 Location of Newsracks.

Any newsrack which rests in whole or in part upon, in or on any portion
of a public right-of-way or which projects onto, into or over any part
of a public right-of-way shall be located in accordance with the
provisions of this Section:

   A.   No newsrack shall be located in whole or in part in any roadway.

   B.   Newsracks shall be located only near the curb (or, if there is
no curb, the edge of the roadway) or the wall of a building. Newsracks
located near the curb shall be located no less than eighteen (18) inches
nor more than twenty-four (24) inches from the roadway edge of the curb.
Newsracks located adjacent to a building shall be located parallel to
and not more than six (6) inches from the wall thereof. No newsrack
shall be located directly in front of any display window of any building
abutting a sidewalk or parkway, except near the curb, without the
written consent of the person or entity legally in occupancy or
otherwise in control of the premises on which the display window is
located. If such consent is withdrawn, any newsrack placed in front of a
display window shall be removed within fourteen (14) days of the date of
written notice from the City to the owner of such newsrack. No newsrack
shall be located on the sidewalk or parkway directly opposite a
newsstand or another newsrack.

   C.   Existing newsracks shall be bolted or safely secured to the
sidewalk or concrete slab or other alternate technique approved by the
Public Works Director. After one (1) year from the date of adoption of
the ordinance codified in this Chapter, all newsracks must be bolted to
the sidewalk or concrete slab.

   D.   Newsracks may be placed next to each other, provided that no
cluster of newsracks shall exceed a distance of more than ten (10) feet.
A cluster shall include no more than six (6) newsracks. There shall be a
limit of two (2) newsracks per publication at any given location per
cluster.

   E.   No newsrack shall be placed, installed, used or maintained:

      1.   Within one hundred (100) feet of any other cluster of
newsracks whether or not containing the same issue or edition of the
same publication;

      2.   Where placement unreasonably interferes with the use of
utility poles, traffic signs or signals, mailboxes, and mechanical
sidewalk cleaning machinery.

13.60.035 Display and Sale of Harmful Matter to Minors.

California Penal Code (CPC) Section 313.1 shall govern the display,
offer for sale or selling of harmful matter as defined in CPC Section
313(a), to minors in vending machines selling such matter, unattended by
an adult at the time of such sale, located in and upon public places.

13.60.040 Encroachment Permit Requirement.

Any person who desires to install or place a newsrack within the public
right-of-way must first obtain an encroachment permit. The submittal of
the list by the distributor or publisher shall constitute the
application for the encroachment permit. No fee will be charged for the
permit and annual update reports.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, newsracks shall be
permitted in the public right-of-way of a public street adjoining land
zoned for residential use only if the street is a major arterial as
shown in the transportation element of the General Plan. The Public
Works Director or his authorized representative shall keep a current
registration of all encroachment permits, including name of permit
holder, address, telephone number, date of issued permit and location of
nuisance.

The applicant must submit a copy of a current business license
certificate issued by the City pursuant to Title 5 of this Code before
an encroachment permit may be issued.

13.60.045 Impoundment of Newsracks - Corrections or Other Disposal
Authorized.

   A.   The Public Works Director or his/her designee may:

      1.   Immediately correct any violation of this Chapter and shall
do so without impounding if such correction can be accomplished simply,
easily, quickly and without City expense;

      2.   Notify the person, if known, maintaining a newsrack found in
violation of this Chapter, either in person, by telephone or by mail, in
his/her discretion, and/or by affixing a notice to the newsrack, that
unless the violation is corrected or a hearing requested within ten (10)
working days if the notice is in person or by telephone, within ten (10)
working days if the notice is by mail, or within ten (10) working days
if the notice is by affixing a notice to the newsrack, of the date of
the notice, the newsrack will be impounded; or

      3.   Impound any newsrack in accordance with the decision of any
hearing requested pursuant to this Chapter.

   B.   If a hearing on the impounding of the newsrack is not timely
requested or if the newsrack is not returned in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter, the City Manager or his designee may sell or
otherwise dispose of the newsrack, and its contents, and deposit the
proceeds, if any, from any such sale or other disposition, any moneys
contained in said newsrack, into the City’s General Fund.

13.60.050 Return of Impounded Newsracks.

   A.   Unless the newsrack and its contents are being held as evidence
in a criminal prosecution, the person maintaining the newsrack, or if
there is no such known person, a claimant who provides sufficient proof
of ownership of an impounded newsrack may, at any time up to and
including the thirtieth (30th) day after the impounding, and if a
hearing pursuant to this Chapter is held concerning the newsrack, may,
at any time up to and including the thirtieth (30th) day after the
decision at such hearing becomes final, obtain a return of the newsrack
and its contents, upon paying an impound fee of twenty-five dollars
($25.00) plus the reasonable additional cost, if any, of impounding the
newsrack in excess of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).

   B.   The City Manager or his designee may, after a hearing in
accordance with this Chapter, order the newsrack returned without
payment of any impound fee, or if an impound fee has previously been
paid, may order return of any such impound fee.

   C.   A court before which criminal charges concerning an impounded
newsrack are pending, may, upon dismissal of the charges or a finding of
acquittal, in its discretion, order an impounded newsrack returned
without payment of an impound fee or the return of the impound fee paid.

13.60.055 Appeal.

Any person or entity aggrieved by a finding, determination, notice,
order or action taken under the provisions of this Chapter may appeal to
the City Manager. An appeal must be perfected within ten (10) working
days after receipt of the notice of any decision or action by filing
with the City Manager a notice of appeal briefly stating therein the
basis for such appeal, identifying the location of the newsrack, and the
name, address and telephone number of the appellant. The City Manager
shall then appoint a hearing officer to hear the appeal. The hearing
must be held on a date within sixty (60) days after receipt of the
notice of appeal. Appellant shall be given at least ten (10) days’
notice of the time and place of the hearing. The hearing officer shall
give the appellant and any other interested party the reasonable
opportunity to be heard, in order to show cause why the determination of
the City Manager or his designee should not be upheld. Within five (5)
days of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make a written decision.
His/her decision is final, with no appeal to the City Council. Fees for
filing an appeal shall be set by resolution of the City Council.

13.60.060 Abandonment.

In the event a newsrack remains empty for a period of thirty (30)
continuous days, the same shall be deemed abandoned and may be treated
in the manner provided in Section 13.60.045 for newsracks in violation
of the provisions of this Chapter.

13.60.065 Insurance.

The City requires every person, corporation, partnership or other entity
which places or maintains a newsrack on a public sidewalk or other
public place in the City to provide insurance as required by current
City policy, rule and/or regulation.

13.60.070 Violations.

Any person, corporation, partnership or other entity who violates any of
the provisions of this Chapter is subject to criminal prosecution as
permitted in Section 1.20.010 of this Code.

13.60.075 Severability.

If any Section, Subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase or
part of this Chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by the final decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this Chapter or any part thereof. The City
Council declares that it would have adopted this Chapter and each
Section, Subsection subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase or part
thereof irrespective of the fact that any one (1) or more Sections,
Subsections, subdivisions, sentences, clauses, phrases or parts be
declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Chapter 13.65
PARADES AND PROCESSIONS

Sections:

   13.65.010   Permit Required

   13.65.020   Permit Fee

   13.65.030   Exemptions - Permit Fee

   13.65.035   Cost Reimbursement

   13.65.050   Notification Along Parade Route

   13.65.060   Appeals

13.65.010 Permit Required.

   A.   No person shall hold, conduct, participate in, or carry on any
parade, march or procession on any street in the City, or beat any drum,
gong, triangle or tambourine, or blow, use or play any wind or stringed
instrument, or provide amplified sound, upon any street in the City,
unless the person has made written application for an received from the
City Engineer, a permit authorizing the person to do so. All
applications for the permit shall set forth the following:

      1.   A map detailing the route along which the parade, march or
procession proposes to travel;

      2.   The date, time of the proposed parade, march or processing,
starting time and length of same;

      3.   The names and addresses of the persons in control of the same
or responsible therefor;

      4.   The purpose of the parade, march or procession; and

      5.   The number of people that will be participating in the
activity.

   B.   All permits which include closing or blocking of any streets or
portions of streets, sidewalks or intersections shall be forwarded to
the Public Works Department for a cost estimate for traffic
control/traffic control devices for the parade, march or procession, and
to the Police Department for a cost estimate to provide an adequate
level of public safety for the parade, march or procession.

   C.   Any request for a parade, march or procession which will involve
the closure of any portion of a street designated as a major arterial or
greater shall be reviewed by an appropriate City commission or committee
for a determination as to whether the proposed parade, march or
procession is of general benefit or interest to the community, and for
its recommendation to the City Engineer. The City Engineer may refer any
request for a parade, march or procession which will involve the closure
of any portion of a street designated as an arterial to the appropriate
commission or committee for its recommendation.

13.65.020 Permit Fee.

Upon submission of an application for a parade, march or procession, the
applicant shall pay an application fee established by resolution of the
City Council. Upon approval of the application, the applicant shall pay
a fee or deposit established by the City Engineer estimated to cover the
actual cost to the City of providing traffic control, regulation and law
enforcement services determined by the City to be necessary for the
parade, march or procession.

13.65.030 Exemptions - Permit Fee.

No application fee shall be required for, of or from any non-profit
organization providing a service, by contract or other arrangement, to
the City without remuneration or which otherwise is beneficial to the
City.

13.65.035 Cost Reimbursement.

Applicants for a parade permit must agree in writing to pay or reimburse
the City for its costs incurred, on behalf of the organizers of the
parade, march or procession. Applicants will be required to post a
deposit of at least one-half (1/2) of the estimated costs, with the
balance to be billed to the responsible party following the event and
the calculation and submittal of actual costs incurred. The City may
determine, in its sole discretion, the manner and timing of payment.

13.65.050 Notification Along Parade Route.

If any parade, march or procession that is located on a street
designated as a major arterial or arterial, and that has been referred
to a City commission or committee, will block access to homes or
businesses for any length of time, all affected homes or businesses
along the proposed route must be notified of the time and place of the
commission or committee meeting at which the permit is to be considered.
Notices of the meeting shall be mailed by the City at the applicant’s
expense, or the organizers of the activity may elect to notify affected
residents and businesses with proof that such notice has been given.

13.65.060 Appeals.

Any person aggrieved by any decision or determination of the City
Engineer may within ten (10) business days of the date of the decision
or determination appeal to the City Council, which shall hold a hearing
on the appeal upon giving at least ten (10) days’ notice to the
appellant of the time and place of the hearing. All costs of notice and
hearing by the City Council shall be borne by the appellant. The
decision of the City Council and the subject of the appeal at the
hearing shall be final and conclusive.

Chapter 13.70
BANNERS

Sections:

   13.70.010   Definition

   13.70.020   Application for Banner Permit

   13.70.030   Banners for Public Events

   13.70.040   Duration of Permit

   13.70.050   Special Banner Permit

   13.70.060   Public Liability and Property Damage Coverage

   13.70.070   Installation of Banners

   13.70.080   Deposit, Deductions and Refunds

   13.70.090   Removal of Material and Debris

13.70.010 Definition.

The provisions of this Chapter apply to the making of applications for
and the granting and control of permits for the placement, erection,
maintenance and removal of banners extending over, upon or along any
highway or any portion thereof.

13.70.020 Application for Banner Permit.

An applicant for a banner permit shall complete and file with the Public
Works Department an application which shall include the following:

   1.   The location, dimensions and purpose of the banner;

   2.   A facsimile of the proposed banner, including any legend or
written matter;

   3.   The proposed date and time of day when the banner will be
installed;

   4.   The proposed date and time of day when the banner will be
removed;

   5.   Such other information as the City Engineer may require.

13.70.030 Banners for Public Events.

Permits issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be granted only to civic
organizations or public bodies for the purpose of bringing to the
attention of the public events which are of general public interest in
the community. No permit shall be issued to further political, religious
or private purposes.

13.70.040 Duration of Permit.

No permit shall be granted for a period in excess of forty (40) days.

13.70.050 Special Banner Permit.

Every applicant for a banner permit shall pay the application and any
other fees established by resolution of the City Council.

13.70.060 Public Liability and Property Damage Coverage.

An applicant shall submit proof of public liability and property damage
insurance to the City Engineer in the amounts and otherwise as required
by the City, as a condition of and prior to issuance of the banner
permit.

13.70.070 Installation of Banners.

The City Engineer may require that the installation of any banner be
under the supervision of a City inspector, for which the permittee shall
reimburse the City’s costs.

13.70.080 Deposit, Deductions and Refunds.

The permittee shall, as a condition of any permit issued pursuant to
this Chapter, post any fee or deposit required by the City Engineer, to
cover the following:

   A.   The permit issuance fee;

   B.   The cost of any required City administration or inspection;

   C.   The cost of any repairs made necessary as a result of
installation or removal of the banner.

      The balance of any special deposit required, if any, shall be
refunded to the permittee upon satisfactory removal of the banner.

13.70.090 Removal of Material and Debris.

A permittee, upon the removal of any banner for which a permit under
this Chapter has been issued, shall remove all material and debris
resulting from the installation, maintenance or removal of any banner,
within twenty-four (24) hours after removal of the banner.

TITLE 14
BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION

Chapters:

   14.10   General

   14.12   California Building Code

   14.13   California Residential Code

   14.14   California Administrative Code

   14.16   California Electrical Code

   14.18   California Plumbing Code

   14.20   California Fire Code

   14.22   Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings

   14.23   California Existing Building Code

   14.24   California Historical Building Code

   14.25   California Referenced Standards Code

   14.26   California Mechanical Code

   14.27   California Green Building Code

   14.28   California Energy Code

   14.29   International Property Maintenance Code

   14.30   Relocated Buildings or Structures

   14.32   [Repealed]

   14.34   Occupancy Survey Inspection

   14.36   Development Impact Fees

   14.38   Permitting Procedures for Small Residential Solar Energy
Systems

Chapter 14.10
GENERAL

Sections:

   14.10.010   Application of Title

   14.10.020   Purpose

   14.10.030   Scope

   14.10.040   Fees

   14.10.050   Substitution of References

   14.10.060   Copies

   14.10.070   Administration of Title

   14.10.080   Validity of Permits

   14.10.090   Remedies Cumulative

   14.10.100   Penalty for Violation

   14.10.110   Interpretation, Legal Procedure and Penalties

   14.10.120   Adoption of Supplements

14.10.010 Application of Title.

The provisions of this Title 14 shall apply to all buildings, structures
and building service equipment within the City and to all parts thereof
except as specifically or by necessary implication provided otherwise in
this Title.

14.10.020 Purpose.

The purpose of this Title is to provide minimum standards to safeguard
life or limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating the
design, construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy, location
and maintenance of buildings, equipment, structures and grading within
the City; the electrical, plumbing, heating, comfort cooling and certain
other equipment specifically regulated herein; and the moving of
buildings within, into, from and through the City.

14.10.030 Scope.

   A.   The provisions of this Title shall apply to the construction,
alteration, moving, demolition, repair and use of all buildings,
equipment and structures within the City, except such as is exempted by
law from regulation by the City.

   B.   Additions, alterations, repairs, moving and changes of use or
occupancy in all buildings and structures shall comply with the
provisions for new buildings and structures, except as otherwise
provided in this Title.

   C.   Where in any specific case different Sections of this Title
specify different materials, methods of construction or installation, or
other requirements, those providing the greater safety to life or limb,
property or public welfare shall prevail. Where there is a conflict
between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific
requirement shall be applicable.

14.10.040 Fees.

   A.   Fees authorized by this Title, or by a Code adopted by reference
in this Title, shall be established by ordinance or resolution of the
City in accordance with applicable law. The provisions of such
resolution or ordinance shall govern in the event of an inconsistency
between the resolution or ordinance and an adopted Code.

   B.   If a fee is authorized and established by a code adopted by this
Title but the amount thereof has not been separately established by
ordinance or resolution of the City Council, then the amount of the
authorized fee set forth in the incorporated code shall be assessed and
collected.

   C.   A permit paid for by check or warrant which is dishonored for
any reason shall be automatically revoked.

14.10.050 Substitution of References.

Whenever in any of the Uniform California Codes adopted in this Title,
or on or in any other location there appears a reference to the
following names or terms, those names or terms shall be deemed and
construed as follows, to wit:

   A.   "City" or any other similar reference to a political entity
shall mean the incorporated territory of the City of Adelanto.

   B.   "Director of Building and Safety," "Electrical Safety Engineer,"
"Administrative Authority" or any other similar term which makes
reference to the individual official, board, department or agency
created by law to administer and enforce the provisions of the Codes
adopted herein shall mean the Building Official and his or her
Authorized Assistants.

   C.   "City Council" shall mean the City Council of the City.

14.10.060 Copies.

One copy of each Uniform Code adopted by this Title shall be kept on
file in the office of the City Clerk for reference use by the public.

14.10.070 Administration of Title.

The Building Official shall administer the provisions of this Title.

14.10.080 Validity of Permits.

Permits required by this Title shall be issued only in accordance with
the provisions hereof. Any permit issued contrary to the provisions of
this Title shall be void and of no effect.

14.10.090 Remedies Cumulative.

Remedies provided to the City for violations of this Title are
cumulative with other remedies available to the City, whether set forth
in this Title or elsewhere. The conviction and punishment of a person
for violating any provision of this Title shall not relieve such person
of the obligation to comply herewith in all respects.

14.10.100 Penalty for Violation.

Where work for which a permit is required by the Codes herein adopted is
started or proceeded without first obtaining the required permit, a
permit shall not be issued until all past due enforcement costs are
paid. The enforcement costs are the actual costs, as specified in the
City's Fee Schedule, or other applicable City enactment, and must be
paid on demand. The Building Official may use any legal means available
to collect enforcement fees. The payment of such enforcement fees shall
not relieve any person from fully complying with the requirements of
these Codes in the execution of the work nor from any other penalties
prescribed herein. Any section in any of the Codes herein adopted which
is in conflict with this Section is hereby repealed.

14.10.110 Interpretation, Legal Procedure and Penalties.

   A.   Interpretation. In interpreting and applying the provisions of
this Title, said provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of public health, safety and general welfare.

   B.   Penalties.

      1.   Any buildings or structures erected or maintained, or any use
of property contrary to the provisions of this Title shall be and the
same is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance and the
City Attorney may, upon request of the Building Official, immediately
commence an action or actions, proceeding or proceedings, for the
abatement, removal and enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law
and shall take such steps and shall apply to such court or courts as may
have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such
building, structure, or use, and restrain and enjoin any person from
erecting or maintaining such building or structure or using any property
contrary to the provisions of this Section.

      2.   All remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive. The conviction and punishment of any person hereunder shall
not relieve such person from the responsibility of correcting prohibited
conditions or removing prohibited buildings, structures or improvements,
nor prevent the enforced correction or removal thereof.

      3.   All other provisions of the Municipal Code notwithstanding,
any person violating or causing or permitting the violation of any of
the provisions of this Title, or of any permit or exception granted
hereunder, shall be guilty of an infraction or misdemeanor as
hereinafter specified, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 1.20 of this Code.

      Notwithstanding the above, a first or second offense may be
charged and prosecuted as a misdemeanor. Payment of any penalty herein
provided shall not relieve a person from the responsibility of
correcting the condition resulting from the violation. In addition to
the above penalties, the court may order that the guilty person
reimburse the City for all of its costs for investigation, analysis and
prosecution of the enforcement action against the guilty person. The
court shall fix the amount of any such reimbursements upon submission of
proof of such costs by the City.

      4.   A Notice of Pendency of Administrative Action or Proceeding
may be filed in the County Recorder's Office at the time of commencement
of action or proceeding or at any time before final judgment or order.
The County Clerk shall record and index the pendency of action in the
name of each person specified in the action or proceedings. After all
required work has been completed and approved, the Building Official
shall cause to be recorded in the Office of the County Recorder a
document terminating the above Notice.

      5.   In the event that any person, firm or corporation shall fail,
neglect or refuse to demolish, remove, abate or correct a structure or
condition existing in violation of this Title upon his or her or its
property after a civil court order or criminal conviction obtained
pursuant to this Section, the City Manager may order the Building
Official to demolish, remove, abate or correct the offending structure
or condition. Pursuant to the procedures set forth in Chapter 1.22 of
this Code, the City is entitled to recovery of all nuisance abatement
costs incurred by the City under this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 568, Section 18, 5/10/17.]

14.10.120 Adoption of Supplements.

All supplements to the California Building Code, the Uniform
Administrative Code, the California Electrical Code, the California
Plumbing Code, the Uniform Fire Code, the California Mechanical Code,
the Uniform Solar Energy Code, the Uniform Code for the Abatement of
Dangerous Buildings, and the Uniform Housing Code are hereby adopted and
shall be applied to all development within the jurisdiction of the City
except that provisions which are inconsistent with this Title, or as to
which the underlying provisions have been deleted by this Title, shall
not be enforced or applied.

Chapter 14.12
CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE

Section:

   14.12.010   Adoption and Amendment

14.12.010 Adoption and Amendment

   A.   The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by
reference the 2022 California Building Code published by the California
Building Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of
Regulations Title 24, Part 2, as modified and amended in this Section
and including Appendices A (Employee Qualifications), C (Agricultural
Buildings), G (Flood-Resistant Construction), H (Signs), I (Patio
Covers), and J (Grading).

   B.   Section 105.2 of Chapter 1, Division II of the 2022 California
Building Code is hereby amended by deleting items 1 through 13 under
"Building" and replacing them with the following items:

      1.   One-story detached accessory buildings used as tool and
storage sheds, playhouses and similar uses and structures such as
portable shade cloth structures, provided the floor area does not exceed
120 square feet (11 m2).

      2.   Oil derricks.

      3.   Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches (762mm) above
adjacent grade, and not over any basement or story below and are not
part of an accessible route.

      4.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops
and similar finish work that does not involve electrical, mechanical or
plumbing work.

      5.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets
and scenery.

      6.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a Group R-3
occupancy that are less than 25 inches (610 mm) deep, do not exceed
5,000 gallons (18,925 L) and are installed entirely above ground.

      7.   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or
agricultural purposes, not including service systems.

      8.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached
one and two-family dwellings.

      9.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall that do not
project more than 54 inches from the exterior wall and do not require
additional support of Group R-3 and U occupancies.

      10.   Non-fixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and
partitions not over 5 feet 9 inches (1753 mm) in height.

   C.   Section 113.3 of the California Building Code is amended to read
as follows:

      113.3 Qualifications. (Board of Appeals) The City Council shall
act as the board of appeals,

   D.   Section 903.2 of the California Building Code is amended to read
as follows:

      903.2 Where required. Approved automatic fire sprinkler systems in
new building and structures shall be provided in the locations described
in this section. However, in all events, an approved automatic fire
sprinkler system shall be provided in all newly constructed buildings of
any occupancy group, except Group R, Division 3 (one and two family
dwellings) and accessory Group U occupancies, shall be provide with
approved automatic fire sprinklers as required in the 2022 California
Residential Code.

      In existing structures, other than Group R, Division 3 (one and
two family dwellings) and Group U occupancies, not equipped with an
automatic fire sprinkler system, the following requirements shall apply:

      1.   For existing buildings smaller than 5,000 square feet (465m2)
in gross floor area, when an addition causes the structure to exceed
5,000 square feet (465m2) and such addition is equal to or greater than
50% of the existing square footage, the entire structure shall be
provided with an automatic sprinkler system.

      2.   For existing buildings larger than 5,000 square feet (465m2)
in gross floor area, when an addition is equal to or greater than 10% of
the existing square footage, the entire structure shall be provided with
an automatic sprinkler system.

      3.   For existing buildings larger than 5,000 square feet (465m2)
in gross floor area, when a change of use occurs that, in the opinion of
the fire code official using the guidance of the California Building
Code, increases the likelihood of, or increases the danger to occupants
in a fire incident, the entire fire area shall be provided with an
automatic sprinkler system.

   Exceptions:

      1.   Spaces or areas in telecommunications buildings used
exclusively for telecommunications equipment, associated electrical
power distribution equipment, batteries and standby engines, provided
those spaces or areas are equipped throughout with an automatic fire
alarm system and are separated from the remainder of the building by
fire barriers consisting of not less than 1-hour fire-resistance-rated
walls and 2-hour fire-resistance-rated floor/ceiling assemblies.

      2.   Automatic fire sprinkler protection for Fixed Guideway
Transit Systems shall be as per Section 903 2.17.

[Ord. No. 501, Section 2, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 2, 11/13/13;
Ord. No. 554, Section 2, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 2, 11/13/19;
Ord. No. 636, Section 2, 10/26/22.]

Chapter 14.13
CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL CODE

Section:

   14.13.010   Adoption and Amendment

14.13.010   Adoption and Amendment

The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2019 California Residential Code published by the California
Building Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of
Regulations Title 24, Part 2.5.

[Ord. No. 501, Section 3, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 3, 11/13/13;
Ord. No. 554, Section 5, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 5, 11/13/19.]

Chapter 14.14
CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE

Section:

   14.14.010   Adoption

14.14.010 Adoption.

The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2022 California Administrative Code published by the California
Building Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of
Regulations Title 24, Part 1.

[Ord. No. 501, Section 4, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 4, 11/13/13;
Ord. No. 554, Section 6, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 6, 11/13/19;
Ord. No. 636, Section 6, 10/26/22.]

Chapter 14.16
CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE

Section:

   14.16.010   Adoption

14.16.010 Adoption.

The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2022 California Electrical Code published by the California Building
Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of
Regulations Title 24, Part 3.

[Ord. No. 501, Section 5, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 5, 11/13/13;
Ord. No. 554, Section 7, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 7, 11/13/19;
Ord. No. 636, Section 7, 10/26/22.]

Chapter 14.18
CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE

Section:

   14.18.010   Adoption

14.18.010 Adoption.

The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2022 California Plumbing Code published by the California Building
Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of
Regulations Title 24, Part 5, including Appendices A (Recommended Rules
for Sizing the Water Supply System), B (Explanatory Notes on Combination
Waste and Vent Systems), D (Sizing Storm Water Drainage Systems), F
(Firefighter Breathing Air Replenishment Systems), H (Private Sewage
Disposal Systems), and I (Installation Standard For PEX Tubing Systems).

[Ord. No. 501, Section 6, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 6, 11/13/13;
Ord. No. 554, Section 8, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 8, 11/13/19;
Ord. No. 636, Section 8, 10/26/22.]

Chapter 14.20
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE

Sections:

   14.20.010   Adoption

14.20.010 Adoption.

The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2022 California Fire Code, published by the California Building
Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of
Regulations Title 24, Part 9, together with Appendices B (Fire-Flow
Requirements For Buildings), C (Fire Hydrant Locations And
Distribution), E (Hazard Categories), F (Hazard Ranking), G (Cryogenic
Fluids-Weight And Volume Equivalents), and H (Hazardous Materials
Management Plans And Hazardous Materials Inventory Statements). Pursuant
to California Fire Code sections 102.9, 103 and 104.1, the Adelanto
Municipal Code further adopts and incorporates the Fire Safety Standards
and the Fire Prevention Standards published by the San Bernardino County
Fire Department.

[Ord. No. 501, Section 7, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 7, 11/13/13;
Ord. No. 554, Section 9, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 9, 11/13/19;
Ord. No. 636, Section 9, 10/26/22.]

Chapter 14.22
UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS

Section:

   14.22.010   Adoption; Amendment

14.22.010 Adoption; Amendment.

   A.   Pursuant to Government Code Section 50022.2, the 1997 Edition of
the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, and
appendices thereto, prepared and published by the International
Conference of Building Officials, is adopted and made a part of this
Chapter by reference, subject to the amendments set forth below. A copy
of this Code is on file in the office of the City Building Official and
available for public inspection.

[Ord. No. 404, Section 6, adopted 11/13/02.]

   B.   A new Subsection 3 is added to Chapter 4 of Section 403 to read
as follows:

      “3.   If the building or structure is in condition which
constitutes an immediate hazard or threat of harm and the situation
calls for abatement sooner than the abatement procedures herein
otherwise allow, the Building Official or Code Enforcement Supervisor
may take or cause emergency abatement of such nuisance with such notice
to parties concerned, or without notice, as particular circumstances
reasonably allow.”

Chapter 14.23
CALIFORNIA EXISTING BUILDING CODE

Section:

   14.23.010   Adoption

14.23.010 Adoption.

The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2022 California Existing Building Code published by the California
Building Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of
Regulations Title 24, Part 10.

[Ord. No. 501, Section 9, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 9, 11/13/13;
Ord. No. 554, Section 11, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 11, 11/13/19;
Ord. No. 636, Section 10, 10/26/22.]

Chapter 14.24
CALIFORNIA HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE

Section:

   14.24.010   Adoption

14.24.010 Adoption.

The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2022 California Historical Building Code published by the California
Building Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of
Regulations Title 24, Part 8.

[Ord. No. 501, Section 10, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 10, 11/13/13;
Ord. No. 554, Section 12, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 12, 11/13/19;
Ord. No. 636, Section 11, 10/26/22.]

Chapter 14.25
CALIFORNIA REFERENCED STANDARDS CODE

Section:

   14.25.010   Adoption

14.25.010 Adoption.

The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2022 California Referenced Standards Code published by the
California Building Standards Commission and to be codified in
California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part 12.

[Ord. No. 501, Section 11, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 11, 11/13/13
11/13/13; Ord. No. 554, Section 13, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 13,
11/13/19; Ord. No. 636, Section 12, 10/26/22.]

Chapter 14.26
CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE

Section:

   14.26.010   Adoption

14.26.010 Adoption.

The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2022 California Mechanical Code published by the California Building
Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of
Regulations Title 24, Part 4, including appendices B (Gas equipment
procedures) and F (Venting Systems & Outdoor Combustion Sizing).

[Ord. No. 501, Section 12, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 12, 11/13/13;
Ord. No. 554, Section 14, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 14, 11/13/19;
Ord. No. 636, Section 13, 10/26/22.]

Chapter 14.27
CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING CODE

Section:

   14.27.010   Adoption

14.27.010   Adoption.

The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2022 California Green Building Code published by the California
Building Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of
Regulations Title 24, Part 11.

[Ord. No. 501, Section 13, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 13, 11/13/13;
Ord. No. 554, Section 15, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 15, 11/13/19;
Ord. No. 636, Section 14, 10/26/22.]

Chapter 14.28
CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE

Section:

   14.28.010   Adoption

14.28.010 Adoption.

The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2022 California Energy Code published by the California Building
Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of
Regulations Title 24, Part 6.

[Ord. No. 501, Section 14, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 14, 11/13/13;
Ord. No. 554, Section 16, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 16, 11/13/19;
Ord. No. 636, Section 15, 10/26/22.]

Chapter 14.29
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE

Section:

   14.29.010   Adoption

14.29.010 Adoption.

The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2021 International Property Maintenance Code published by the
International Code Council.

[Ord. No. 501, Section 15, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 15, 11/13/13;
Ord. No. 554, Section 17, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 17, 11/13/19;
Ord. No. 636, Section 16, 10/26/22.]

Chapter 14.30
RELOCATED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES

Sections:

   14.30.010   Relocation Building Permit Required

   14.30.020   Application

   14.30.030   Inspection Fee

   14.30.040   Building and Relocation Site Inspection Report

   14.30.050   Report Validity

   14.30.060   Changes

   14.30.070   Manufactured Homes on Residential Lots

   14.30.080   Declaration of Public Nuisance

14.30.010 Relocation Building Permit Required.

A person shall not move onto any premises, other than a commercial
storage yard authorized for such use, any building or structure, except
a contractor's tool house, construction building or similar structure
which is moved as construction requires, until he/she first secures a
relocation building permit as hereinafter provided.

14.30.020 Application.

Applicants for relocation permits shall submit photographs of at least
two (2) separate elevations, one (1) of which shall be the front, and a
certificate from a pest control agency or operator licensed under the
Structural Pest Control Act of California, showing freedom from termite
infestation, for each building or structure to be moved, when
application for a relocation permit is filed.

14.30.030 Inspection Fee.

The applicant shall pay an inspection fee upon application for a permit
to move a building or structure in accordance with the Fee Schedule or
other applicable City enactment. There shall be no inspection or
inspection fee on a building or structure to be moved out of the City.

14.30.040 Building and Relocation Site Inspection Report.

Upon receipt of an application for a permit to relocate a building or
structure and receipt of payment of the prescribed inspection fee, the
Building Official shall inspect the building or structure to be moved
and the proposed relocation site, and prepare a written report which
shall be forwarded to the applicant. This report shall contain the
approval or disapproval of the Building Official and, if approved for
moving, shall contain the requirements necessary to make the building or
structure conform to the requirements of the Municipal Code, and Title
14 thereof, for new buildings and any other applicable ordinances and
any additional requirements necessary to assure that such relocation
shall not have detrimental effect by size, design or age, on the living
environment and property values in the area into which the building or
structure is to be moved.

14.30.050 Report Validity.

Additional corrections may be added to the report whenever the structure
has been vandalized, damaged during transportation, or altered in any
manner after the on-site inspection. Otherwise, the inspection report
shall remain valid for a period of ninety (90) days after the building
or structure has been inspected. At the end of such time, if the
building or structure has not been relocated, a new report and
inspection fee will be required.

14.30.060 Changes.

The applicant shall make all required changes within one hundred eighty
(180) days and shall agree in writing to do so. This time limitation may
be extended by the Building Official upon receipt of evidence of just
and proper cause, provided, however, that no such extension shall be
granted when, in his/her judgment, such an extension would be
detrimental to the public welfare for any cause or reason.

14.30.070 Manufactured Homes on Residential Lots.

   A.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be interpreted or is intended to
conflict with the requirements of Government Code Section 65852.3 with
respect to the installation of a manufactured home certified under the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. Sections 5401 et seq.), on a foundation system, pursuant
to Section 18551 of the Health and Safety Code, and on a lot zoned for a
conventional single-family residential dwelling, and which otherwise
complies with established building setback standards, side and rear yard
requirements, standards for enclosures, access and vehicle parking,
aesthetic requirements, and minimum square footage requirements and
other development standards applicable to a conventional single-family
residential dwelling on the same lot.

   B.   The installation of manufactured homes on a lot zoned for
conventional single-family dwellings is prohibited if more than ten (10)
years have elapsed between the date of manufacture of the manufactured
home and the date of the application for the issuance of a permit to
install the manufactured home in the affected zone.

14.30.080 Declaration of Public Nuisance.

When any relocated building or structure or portion thereof remains
unfinished or unfit for occupancy after expiration of the time limit
herein specified, any and all permits pertaining thereto shall expire by
limitation and such building or structure or portion thereof is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided for in Title
8 of the Municipal Code.

Chapter 14.32
[REPEALED]

Chapter 14.34
OCCUPANCY SURVEY INSPECTION

Section:

   14.34.010   Change in Use

14.34.010 Change in Use.

When a business license application is received by the City for a
location or structure that has previously housed a business of a
different nature, a permit must be obtained for an inspection by the
Department of Building and Safety. The inspection permit fee shall be in
accordance with the schedule as established by the City of Adelanto.
This fee may be amended by resolution of the City Council.

[Ord. No. 404, Section 8, adopted 11/13/02; Ord. No. 501, Section 18,
10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 18, 11/13/13.]

Chapter 14.36
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES

Sections:

   14.36.010   Intent and Purpose

   14.36.020   Applicability

   14.36.030   Park and Recreation Facilities Development Impact Fees

   14.36.040   Master Drainage Plan Development Impact Fees

   14.36.050   Establishment and Administration of Funds

   14.36.060   Drainage Reimbursements and Credits

14.36.010 Intent and Purpose.

The intent of this Chapter is to establish development impact fees to be
applicable to development in order to offset the direct, cumulative,
incremental, and indirect impacts of development on public facilities
and services. It is further intended that a system of development impact
fees can more equitably account and distribute the costs of providing
and maintaining adequate levels of public facilities and services as
established in the General Plan of the City.

[Ord. No. 425, adopted 2/23/05; Ord. No. 440, adopted 10/26/05.]

14.36.020 Applicability.

Development impact fees shall be required as a condition of issuance of
a building permit for construction of all new buildings, or where a
building permit is not required for any development or use of private
property, other than permitted as a temporary use in Chapter 17.155 of
the Zoning Code. Fees shall be paid prior to the final inspection of a
building or certificate of occupancy. Where a building permit is not
required, fees shall be paid prior to initiation of use of the property.
No occupancy of a new building or use of private property other than
temporary use as specified above shall be considered permitted until
applicable development impact fees have been paid to the City.

[Ord. No. 425, adopted 2/23/05; Ord. No. 440, adopted 10/26/05.]

14.36.030 Park and Recreation Facilities Development Impact Fees.

A development impact fee of two thousand eight hundred ninety dollars
($2,890.00) per dwelling unit for the provision of park and recreation
facilities shall be paid for all new dwelling units in the City,
including second dwelling units, for which permits are issued after the
effective date of Ordinance No. 425. However, for the period between the
effective date of Ordinance No. 425 and January 1, 2006, a reduction of
fifty (50) percent shall be allowed for permits issued prior to January
1, 2006, so that the development impact fee for park and recreation
facilities for permits issued prior to January 1, 2006, shall be one
thousand four hundred forty-five dollars ($1,445).

[Ord. No. 425, adopted 2/23/05; Ord. No. 440, adopted 10/26/05.]

14.36.040 Master Drainage Plan Development Impact Fees.

Development impact fees for the implementation of Master Drainage Plan
facilities shall be paid for all new development in the City, for which
permits are issued after the effective date of Ordinance No. 425 as
specified below:

   Non-Residential Development:               $ 11,900 per gross acre

   Residential Development

      Detached Single Family Residential             $ 3,132 per
dwelling unit

       Development (not including

       second units

      Attached Single Family Residential             $ 1,566 per
dwelling unit

       Development and Multi-Family Residential Development

However, for the period between the effective date of Ordinance No. 425
and January 1, 2006, a reduction of fifty (50) percent shall be allowed
for permits issued prior to January 1, 2006, so that the development
impact fee for Master Drainage Plan facilities for permits issued prior
to January 1, 2006, shall be as follows:

   Non-Residential Development:               $ 5,950 per gross acre

   Residential Development

      Detached Single Family Residential             $ 1,566 per
dwelling unit

       Development (not including

       second units

      Attached Single Family Residential             $ 778 per dwelling
unit

       Development and Multi-Family Residential Development

[Ord. No. 425, adopted 2/23/05; Ord. No. 440, adopted 10/26/05.]

14.36.050 Establishment and Administration of Funds.

The Finance Director shall establish a Special Fund for each category of
development impact fee established by this Chapter. All fees collected
pursuant to this Chapter shall be deposited in the respective Special
Fund established for that particular fee, and shall be expended solely
to finance the planning, environmental review, design, construction, and
development of facilities and related infrastructure necessary to
support those facilities. Excess funds may be loaned from one Special
Fund to another, or to the General Fund, as long as the loan
(“Inter-Fund Loan “) complies with State law, does not interfere with
the purpose for which the Special Fund was established, and is paid back
in full within two years of the effective date of the loan agreement. If
an Inter-Fund Loan remains outstanding at any given time, an additional
Inter-Fund Loan shall only be permitted upon specific approval of the
City Council.

[Ord. No. 425, adopted 2/23/05; Ord. No. 440, adopted 10/26/05; Ord. No.
566, Section 2, adopted 4/26/17.]

14.36.060 Drainage Reimbursements and Credits.

   A.   Facilities built by developers shall be built to ultimate
capacity, including lining the sides of the facilities as described in
the Master Plan of Drainage, unless specifically conditioned otherwise.
Where approved by the City Engineer and the Community Development
Director, partial improvements may be constructed that are consistent
with the ultimate improvements but can be reasonably further improved at
a later date. (Master Plan facilities are intended as "soft-bottom"
facilities to allow for percolation.) Facilities shall also be designed
with vehicular access structures downstream of each road crossing to
allow for access for maintenance.

   B.   Credits against fees and Reimbursement Agreements for capital
expenditures consistent with the Master Plan of Drainage and this
Chapter shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Engineer
and Community Development Director and may be considered up to one
hundred (100) percent of the eligible cost for construction of Master
Plan Facilities. This would include "dry", all weather, one hundred
(100)-year crossings built to ultimate capacity which are included in
the Background Report for Fees. Reimbursement Agreements shall require
City Council approval.

   C.   Credits and reimbursements shall be limited to costs as defined
in the Background Report for Fees. Credits and reimbursements for
"crossings" shall be limited to "dry", all weather, one hundred
(100)-year crossings identified in the Background Report and shall not
exceed amounts determined by the City Engineer based on amounts included
in the Background Report for Fees.

   D.   The City will consider Reimbursement Agreements for construction
of Master Plan Facilities, including "dry", all weather, one hundred
(100)-year crossings identified in the Background Report, subject to the
following:

      1.   Reimbursement Agreements for projects subject to the fifty
(50) percent fees between April 25, 2005 and January 1, 2006 shall be
limited to fifty (50) percent of the construction costs in excess of any
credits.

      2.   Reimbursement Agreements shall require approval of the City
Council.

      3.   Reimbursement Agreements shall not exceed a period of ten
(10) years, after which they shall expire, even if all expenditures have
not been reimbursed.

   E.   Development fees collected for Master Drainage Plan facilities
shall be apportioned as follows:

      1.   Fifty (50) percent shall be reserved for critical facilities
as determined by the City Council.

      2.   Fifty (50) percent may be allocated for reimbursements within
the "watershed" of the specific channel in which the project is located.

      3.   Priority for reimbursements shall be at the discretion of the
City Council. Reimbursements typically will be apportioned on a pro-rata
basis within each "watershed" for each project which has a Reimbursement
Agreement.

   F.   All design and construction must be approved by the City
Engineer. The City reserves the right to collect fees and design and
construct facilities under City supervision rather than allowing the
developer to construct facilities.

   G.   The City Council may authorize alternative facilities that
achieve the same purpose as a Master Plan facility that would be
eligible for credits, reimbursements, and expenditure of fees for Master
Plan Drainage facilities.

[Ord. No. 440, adopted 10/26/05.]

Chapter 14.38
PERMITTING PROCEDURES FOR SMALL RESIDENTIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS

Sections:

   14.38.010   Purpose and Intent

   14.38.020   Definitions

   14.38.030   Small Residential Rooftop Solar System Requirements

   14.38.040   Application Review

   14.38.050   Electronic Access to Permit Information and Submittals

   14.38.060   Inspection

   14.38.070   Fees

14.38.010   Purpose and Intent.

   The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to adopt an expedited,
streamlined solar permitting process that complies with the Solar Rights
Act, as amended by Assembly Bill 2188 (Chapter 521, Statutes 2014) to
achieve timely and cost-effective installations of small residential
rooftop solar energy systems. This Chapter will increase the deployment
of residential solar distributed generation, provide solar customers
greater installation ease, improve the City and state's ability to reach
its clean energy goals, and generate much needed jobs in the City and
state. The Chapter allows the City to achieve these goals while
protecting public health and safety.

(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)

14.38.020   Definitions.

   The following definitions shall be applicable to the provisions in
this Chapter.

   A.   "A feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the
specific, adverse impact" means a method that includes, but is not
limited to, any cost-effective method, condition, or mitigation imposed
by the City on another similarly situated application in a prior
successful application for a permit. The City shall use its best efforts
to ensure that the selected method, condition, or mitigation meets the
conditions of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision
(d) of Section 714 of the Civil Code.

   B.   "Reasonable restrictions" means on a solar energy system are
those restrictions that do not significantly increase the cost of the
system or significantly decrease its efficiency or specified
performance, or that allow for an alternative system of comparable cost,
efficiency, and energy conservation benefits.

   C.   "Restrictions that do not significantly increase the cost of the
system or decrease its efficiency or specified performance" means:

      1.   For water heater systems or solar swimming pool hearing
systems: An amount exceeding ten (10) percent of the cost of the system,
but in no case more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), or decreasing
the efficiency of the solar energy system by an amount exceeding ten
(10) percent, as originally specified and proposed.

      2.   For photovoltaic systems: An amount not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000) over the system cost as originally specified
and proposed, or a decrease in system efficiency of an amount exceeding
ten (10) percent as originally specified and proposed.

   D.   "Solar energy system" means a solar energy system as defined in
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, including but not limited to:

      1.   Any solar collector or other solar energy device whose
primary purpose is to provide for the collection, storage, and
distribution of solar energy for space hearing, space cooling, electric
generation, or water heating.

      2.   Any structural design feature of a building, whose primary
purpose is to provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of
solar energy for electricity generation, space heating or cooling or for
water heating.

   E.   "Small residential rooftop solar energy system"" means a solar
energy system which meets all of the following:

      1.   A solar energy system that is no larger than ten (10)
kilowatts alternating current nameplate rating or thirty (30) kilowatts
thermal.

      2.   A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable state
fire, structural, electrical, and other building codes as adopted or
amended by the City; all state, local health and safety standards; and
all applicable safety and performance standards established by the
California Electrical Code, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers, and accredited testing laboratories such as Underwriters
Laboratories and, where applicable, rules of the Public Utilities
Commission regarding safety and reliability.

      3.   A solar energy system that is installed on a single or duplex
family dwelling.

      4.   A solar panel or module array that does not exceed the
maximum legal building height as defined by the City of Adelanto
Development Code.

      5.   A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable state
fire, structural, electrical, and other building codes as adopted or
amended by the City, all state and City health and safety standards, and
paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of section 714 of the California Civil
Code.

   F.   "Specific, adverse impact" means a significant, quantifiable,
direct, and unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified, and
written public health or safety standards, policies, or conditions as
they existed on the date the application was deemed complete.

   G.   "Electronic submittal" means the utilization of one (1) or more
of the following:

      1.   Email;

      2.   Internet;

      3.   Facsimile.

(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)

14.38.030   Small Residential Rooftop Solar System Requirements.

   A.   All small residential rooftop solar energy systems shall comply
with the applicable standards and requirements for solar energy systems
as set forth in the California Code of Regulations, Title 24.

   B.   The small residential rooftop solar system permit process,
standard plan(s), and checklist(s), shall substantially conform to the
recommendations for expedited permitting, including the checklists and
standard plans, contained in the most current version of the California
Solar Permitting Guidebook adopted by the Governor's Office of Planning
and Research.

(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)

14.38.040   Application Review.

   A.   Upon confirmation that the application is complete, staff shall
review the application to ensure that the small residential rooftop
solar energy system meets local, state, and federal health and safety
requirements. Upon receipt of an incomplete application, the Building
Official shall issue a written correction notice detailing all
deficiencies in the application and any additional information required
to be eligible for expedited permit issuance. The Building Official may
require an applicant to apply for a use permit pursuant to the City of
Adelanto Development Code, if the Building Official finds, based on
substantial evidence, that the small residential rooftop solar energy
system could have a specific, adverse impact upon the public health and
safety.

   B.   Upon confirmation by the Building Official of the application
and supporting documentation being complete and meeting the requirements
of the checklist, the Building Official shall administratively approve
the application and issue all required permits or authorizations within
a reasonable time following receipt of a complete application that meets
the requirements of the approved checklist, standard plans and this
Chapter. Such approval shall not include any necessary approval or
permission by a local utility provider to connect the small residential
rooftop energy system to the provider's electricity grid. The applicant
is responsible for obtaining such approval or permission from the local
utility provider.

   C.   Staff's approval of an application shall not be based or
conditioned on the approval of an association, as defined in California
Civil Code section 4080.

   D.   All documents required for the submission of a small residential
rooftop solar energy system application shall be made available on the
publically accessible City website.

   E.   Prior to submitting an application, the applicant shall:

      1.   Verify to the applicant's reasonable satisfaction through the
use of standard engineering evaluation techniques that the support
structure for the small residential rooftop solar energy system is
stable and adequate to transfer all wind, seismic, and dead and live
loads associated with the system to the building foundation; and

      2.   At the applicant's cost, verify to the applicant's reasonable
satisfaction using standard electrical inspection techniques that the
existing electrical system including existing line, load ground and
bonding wiring as well as main panel and subpanel sizes are adequately
sized, based upon the existing electrical system's current use, to carry
all new photovoltaic electrical loads.

(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)

14.38.050   Electronic Access to Permit Information and Submittals.

   A.   The Building Official shall make the checklist and all
permitting documentation required for a small residential rooftop solar
energy system available on a publicly accessible website. The Building
Official is authorized to modify the checklist consistent with state
law, local regulations, and with changes in industry standards and
technology.

   B.   Pending software installation, adaptation and security testing,
an applicant may submit the application and related documentation for a
small residential rooftop solar energy system by electronic submittal,
as specified on the City website. Electronic signatures shall be
accepted by the City on all electronic submittals in lieu of a wet
signature, in conformance with California Government Code section 16.5
and California Code of Regulations sections 22000 et seq.

(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)

14.38.060   Inspections.

   A.   One (1) inspection shall be required and performed by staff for
small residential rooftop solar energy systems eligible for expedited
review, which shall be done in a timely manner and may include a
consolidated inspection by the building official and fire marshal. If a
small residential rooftop solar energy system fails inspection, a
subsequent inspection is authorized; however, the subsequent inspection
need not conform to the requirements of this Section.

   B.   The inspection shall be done in a timely manner.

   C.   If a small residential rooftop solar energy system fails
inspection, a subsequent inspection is authorized but need not conform
to the requirements of this Section.

(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)

14.38.070   Fees.

   All fees prescribed for the permitting of small residential rooftop
solar energy systems must comply with Government Code sections 65950.55,
66015, and 66016, and Health and Safety Code Section 17951.

(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)

TITLE 15
RESERVED

TITLE 16
SUBDIVISIONS

Chapters:

   16.04   General Provisions

   16.08   Tentative and Final Maps

   16.12   Minor Subdivisions

   16.16   Vesting Tentative Maps

   16.20   Composite Development Plan

   16.24   Lot Line Adjustments

   16.28   Lot Mergers

   16.32   Reversion to Acreage

   16.36   Certificates of Compliance

   16.40   Official Maps

   16.44   Resident Initiated Mobile Home Park Conversions

   16.48   Lot Requirements

   16.52   Dedication of Land and/or Payment of Fees for Park and
Recreation Purposes

Chapter 16.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sections:

   16.04.010   Declaration of Purpose

   16.04.020   General Provisions

   16.04.030   Filing Criteria

   16.04.040   Map Procedures

   16.04.050   General Requirements

   16.04.060   Subdivision Design and Improvement Standards

   16.04.070   Improvement Security

   16.04.080   Prohibition and Penalty

   16.04.090   Remedies

16.04.010 Declaration of Purpose.

   A.   It is the purpose of this Title to ensure implementation of the
City’s General Plan through attainment of its stated goals and
objectives regarding the regulation and control of the creation,
adjustment and deletion of property lines through subdivision or other
procedures.

   B.   It is also the intent of this Title to provide, in conjunction
with Titles 13, 14, and 17 of this Code, for proper grading and erosion
control, including the prevention of sedimentation on, or damage to,
off-site property, and to specifically apply those regulations.

   C.   In addition, it is the intent of this Title to implement those
provisions of the California Solar Rights Act of 1978 relating to the
design of subdivisions for future passive or natural heating or cooling
opportunities.

16.04.020 General Provisions.

The provisions defining and regulating the review and approval of
tentative, final and parcel maps; lot line adjustments; lot mergers;
reversions to acreage; certificates of compliance; and official maps
shall be governed by this Title, except as otherwise indicated by this
Section.

   A.   Authority for Local Regulations. Pursuant to the provisions of
California Government Code, Title 7, Division 2, referred to herein as
the “Subdivision Map Act,” and in addition to any regulations otherwise
provided by law, the regulations contained in this Title shall apply to
all subdivisions, parts of subdivisions, lot line adjustments, lot
mergers, reversions to acreage, certificates of compliance and official
maps hereafter made entirely or partially within the City.

   B.   The designation, establishment, duties and meeting dates of the
reviewing authorities shall be governed by Titles 2 and Chapter 17.03.

   C.   Review procedures and findings for approval shall be as
specified by this Title 16 and the permits and procedures provisions of
Title 17 (the “Development Code”).

   D.   Terms used within this Title are defined as specified in Chapter
17.200 of the Development Code.

16.04.030 Filing Criteria.

   A.   Maps of Condominium or Community Apartment Projects. A map of a
condominium project, a community apartment project or of the conversion
of five (5) or more existing dwelling units into a stock cooperative
project need not show the buildings or the manner in which the buildings
or the airspace above the property shown on the map are to be divided,
nor will the City refuse approval of a parcel, tentative or final map of
such a project on account of design or location of buildings on the
property shown on the map. However, the City may regulate the design and
location of a condominium project or a community apartment project
through the provisions of its General Plan or Development Code. The City
may refuse approval of such a project if the design and locations of
buildings violate provisions of the General Plan or Development Code.

   B.   Filing Maps with County Recorder. Of the maps required by this
Title and the Subdivision Map Act, only final and parcel maps may be
filed for record in the office of the County Recorder.

      1.   No final map required by this Chapter and the Subdivision Map
Act which creates a subdivision shall be filed with the County Recorder
without the written consent of all parties having any record title
interest in the real property proposed to be subdivided, except as
otherwise provided in this Title.

      2.   No parcel map required by this Title and the Subdivision Map
Act which creates a subdivision shall be filed with the County Recorder
without the consent of the legal owner of record in the real property
proposed to be subdivided, except as otherwise provided in this Title.

16.04.040 Map Procedures.

The procedures set forth in this Section shall govern the filing,
processing, approval, conditional approval or disapproval of tentative,
final and parcel maps and the modification thereof, in addition to the
requirements in previous provisions.

   A.   Extension of Time Limits. The time limits specified in this
Title for reporting and acting on maps may be extended by mutual consent
of the subdivider and the planning agency or City Council.

   B.   Fees for Processing. Fees for the processing of tentative,
vesting tentative, minor subdivision plot plan, final and parcel maps,
lot line adjustments, lot mergers, reversion to acreage, certificates of
compliance and official maps, and for other procedures required or
authorized by this Title 16, shall be established in the City’s fee
resolution.

   C.   Parcel Maps. The Planning Director may grant approval for the
creation of two (2), three (3) or four (4) lots and a remainder parcel
as shown on an approved tentative subdivision map for the purpose of
obtaining building permits for model homes or units. As a condition of
this approval, a parcel map may be required. Prior to the issuance of
building permits for said model homes, a surety bond or cash deposit
shall be posted with the City Engineer for the street improvements
abutting said lots as required for the approved tentative subdivision.
The surety bond or cash deposit shall be in an amount equal to a
contractor’s construction estimate, plus ten percent (10%).

   D.   Filing Maps with County Recorder. After the approval by the City
of a final or parcel map of a subdivision within the unincorporated
territory, the map shall be transmitted ultimately to the County
Recorder in accordance with Sections 66464 et seq. of the Subdivision
Map Act, or as the Subdivision Map Act may be subsequently amended.

   E.   Correction and Amendment to Maps. The purpose of this Subsection
is to provide a means to correct errors which may be found in final or
parcel maps.

      1.   Amendment to a Final or Parcel Map. After a final map or
parcel map is filed in the office of the County Recorder, it may be
amended by a certificate of correction or an amending map in the
following circumstances:

         a.   To correct an error in any course or distance shown
thereon;

         b.   To show any course or distance that was omitted therefrom;

         c.   To correct an error in the description of the real
property shown on the map;

         d.   To indicate monuments set after the death, disability or
retirement from practice of the engineer or surveyor charged with the
responsibilities for setting monuments;

         e.   To show the proper location or character of any monument
which has been changed in location or character or originally was shown
at the wrong location or incorrectly as to its character; or

         f.   To correct any other type of map error or omission as
approved by the County Surveyor which does not affect any property
right. Such errors and omissions may include, but are not limited to:
lot numbers, acreage, street names and identification of adjacent record
maps.

            As used in this Section, “error” does not include change in
courses or distances from which an error is not ascertainable from the
data shown on the final or parcel map.

      2.   Preparation of Amending Map. The amending map or certificate
of correction shall be prepared by a registered civil engineer licensed
to practice land surveying or licensed land surveyor. An amending map
shall conform to the requirements of the chapter governing final map
form and content, if a final map, or the chapter governing parcel map
form and content, if a parcel map. The amending map or certificate of
correction shall set forth in detail the corrections made and show the
names of the present fee owners of the property affected by the
correction or omission.

      3.   Map Amendment Examined by City Engineer. The City Engineer
shall examine the amending map or certificate of correction; and if the
only changes made are those set forth in this Subsection, the City
Engineer shall certify to this fact on the amending map or certificate
of correction.

      4.   Filing of Map Amendment with County Recorder. The amending
map or certificate of correction certified by the City Engineer shall be
filed in the office of the County Recorder in which the original map was
filed. Upon such filing, the County Recorder shall index the names of
the fee owners and the appropriate tract designation shown on the
amending map or certificate of correction in the general index and map
index respectively. Thereupon, the original map shall be deemed to have
been conclusively so corrected, and thereafter shall impart constructive
notice of all such corrections in the same manner as though set forth
upon the original map.

      5.   Upon recordation of an amending map or certificate of
correction, the County Recorder shall, within sixty (60) days of
recording, transmit a certified copy to the City Engineer who shall
maintain an index of recorded certificates of correction. The amending
map shall contain a certificate of preparation that is signed by the
registered civil engineer licensed to practice land surveying or
licensed land surveyor who prepared the map and a prominently displayed
note on the map which briefly lists the changes to the satisfaction of
the County Surveyor.

   F.   Further Modifications of Final Maps. In addition to the
amendments authorized by Section 16.04.040.E., after a final map or
parcel map is filed in the office of the County Recorder, such a
recorded final map may be modified by a certificate of correction or an
amending map if the City Council makes each of the following findings:

      1.   That there are changes in circumstances which make one (1) or
all of the conditions of such a map no longer appropriate or necessary;
and

      2.   That the modifications do not impose any additional burden on
the present fee owner of the property; and

      3.   That the present fee owner of the property has consented in
writing to the modifications; and

      4.   That the modifications do not alter any right, title or
interest in the real property reflected on the recorded map; and

      5.   That the map, as modified, conforms with each of the
following findings:

         a.   The site is physically suitable for the proposed type of
development;

         b.   The site is physically suitable for the proposed density
of development;

         c.   The design of the subdivision and the proposed
improvements are not likely to cause substantial environmental damage or
substantially and avoidably injure fish or wildlife or their habitat;

         d.   The design of the subdivision and any related types of
proposed improvements are not likely to cause serious public health
problems or cause a threat to life and property from a wildland
conflagration;

         e.   The proposed subdivision together with the provisions for
its design and improvements are consistent with the General Plan, and
any applicable community plan or specific plan;

         f.   The proposed subdivision, its design, density and type of
development and improvements conform to the regulations of the
Development Code, and the regulations of any public agency having
jurisdiction by law;

         g.   The proposed subdivision is not deemed to be a land
project, or an adopted specific plan covering the area proposed to be
included within the project has been adopted by the City Council; and
the proposed land project subdivision together with the provisions for
its design and improvement are consistent with the adopted specific
plan;

         h.   The design of the subdivision provides to the extent
feasible, passive or natural heating and cooling opportunities to each
of the proposed lots. Such opportunities may include, but are not
limited to: siting of structures to take optimum advantage of passive
cooling and heating opportunities, providing additional opportunities
through land use controls for the use of solar energy systems, adjusting
lot depth and width to provide for the future use of solar energy
systems, and adjusting building setback lines to promote the optimum
spacing of structures to create adequate solar access; and

         i.   Where applicable, in the event that the proposed
subdivision is a conversion of residential real property into a
condominium project, a community apartment project or a stock
cooperative project, that the proposed subdivision has complied with the
requirements of Government Code Sections 66427.1(a) and 66452.10.

            Any such modification shall be set for a noticed public
hearing as is required for any other Planning Commission or City Council
action in which the reviewing authority hears public testimony for and
against the land use proposal, reviews evidence and renders its decision
in connection with a land use approval. The City Council shall confine
the hearing to consideration of and action on the proposed modification.
These map modifications shall also be subject to the preparation, review
and recordation requirements of Section 16.04.040.E. where applicable.

16.04.050 General Requirements.

The procedures set forth in this Section shall govern the requirements
for soils report, special map requirement, environmental review,
dedications, monument, and improvement requirements.

   A.   Soils Report Requirement. The requirements set forth in this
Subsection shall apply to the soils report.

      1.   A preliminary soils report may be required as part of the
tentative map approval, providing the planning director makes a finding,
based upon existing knowledge of soil qualities, that a preliminary
analysis is necessary. The findings shall be based upon evidence,
information and recommendations of the development review committee or
development review committee member acting within the departmental area
of expertise.

      2.   If the City has knowledge of, or the preliminary soils report
indicates, the presence of critically expansive soils or other soils
problems which, if not corrected, would lead to structural defects, a
soils investigation of each lot in the subdivision may be required. Such
soils investigation shall be done by a civil engineer registered in this
state, who shall recommend the corrective action which is likely to
prevent structural damage to each structure proposed to be constructed
in the area where such soils problems exist.

         If the planning agency has knowledge of areas of districts
which are characterized by such expansive soils or other soils problems,
upon the recommendation of the planning officer, development review
committee, or environmental review board, the planning agency may
require that a soils investigation be prepared for each lot of any
subdivision proposed within said areas or districts.

      3.   The planning agency may approve the subdivision or portion
thereof where such soils problems exist if it determines that the
development review committee’s recommended action is likely to prevent
structural damage to each structure to be constructed. As a condition to
the issuance of any building permit, it shall be required that the
approved recommended action be incorporated in the construction of each
structure.

      4.   Each report shall be kept on file at the Building and Safety
Department for public inspection. The location of these reports shall be
referenced on the composite development plan.

   B.   Special Map Requirement. Prior to tentative or parcel map
approval, the planning director may require that the following
information be reflected on the tentative map or minor subdivision plot
plan:

      1.   Submittal of a map showing any or all existing easements and
locations of rock outcrops, high groundwater and spring discharge.

      2.   Delineation of the portions of lots allocated for the
subsurface disposal of sewage effluent.

      3.   The approximate size of irregularly shaped lots where it is
deemed necessary in order to accomplish the objectives of this Chapter
and of the General Plan.

      4.   A plan may be required where watercourses, significant
drainage channels or bodies of water traverse or adjoin a lot, showing
how sewage disposal systems will be installed and maintained.

         Lines depicting the required setbacks from such watercourses,
drainage channels or bodies of water shall be indicated on a copy of the
tentative map. The map shall be reviewed by the development review
committee and recommendations shall be forwarded to the planning agency.
When subsurface waste-disposal systems are proposed, a preliminary soils
report shall be provided by the subdivider which shall ascertain the
acceptability of subsurface sewage-disposal systems where such will be
the method for waste disposal.

         This information shall be incorporated into the composite
development plan to be filed with the building and safety department.
The location of any special maps shall be referenced on the composite
development plan.

   C.   Environmental Review Requirements. The requirements set forth in
this Subsection shall apply to the procedures related to environmental
review.

      1.   No tentative map or parcel map shall be approved or
disapproved until there has been compliance with the California
Environmental Quality Act, the State CEQA guidelines and the adopted
environmental review guidelines for the City. On tentative maps or
parcel maps for which an environmental impact report has been prepared,
the planning agency shall take the following actions:

         a.   Respond to the significant environmental points raised in
the review and consultation process. The response shall describe the
disposition of significant environmental issues raised (e.g., revisions
to the proposed tentative map to mitigate anticipated impacts or
objections). In particular, the major issues raised when the planning
agency’s position is at a variance with recommendations and objections
raised in the comments must be addressed in detail giving reasons why
specific comments and suggestions are not accepted, and factors of
importance warranting override of the suggestions.

         b.   Identify the ultimate choice from alternatives presented
in the environmental impact report and indicate why other alternatives
were rejected in favor of the ultimate choice.

         c.   If the planning agency decides to approve a tentative map
or parcel map for which significant adverse environmental consequences
have been identified in an environmental impact report, the planning
agency shall make a statement identifying the other interests that
warrant approval in its point of view.

   D.   Dedications.

      1.   Streets, Highways and Flood Control Rights-of-Way. As a
condition of approval of a map, the subdivider shall dedicate or make an
irrevocable offer of dedication of all parcels of land within the
subdivision that are needed for:

         a.   Streets;

         b.   Alleys;

         c.   Access rights and abutters’ rights;

         d.   Drainage easements;

         e.   Public utility easements;

         f.   Other public easements.

            In addition, the subdivider shall improve or agree to
improve all streets, alleys, including access rights and abutters’
rights, drainage, public utility easements and other public easements.
The subdivider may also be required to dedicate such additional land as
may be necessary and feasible to provide bicycle paths for the use and
safety of residents of the subdivision.

      2.   Drainage Rights-of-Way. When, in the opinion of the planning
agency, drainage rights-of-way are necessary, the subdivider shall offer
to dedicate upon the final map of the subdivision the necessary
rights-of-way for such drainage facilities.

      3.   Flood Control Dedication. Where dedication is offered for
Flood Control District rights-of-way, such rights-of-way shall be shown
as lots lettered alphabetically on the final map. Such offer of
dedication shall be made by an appropriate certificate on the title
sheet of the final map, and, in addition, an executed deed conveying fee
title to said right-of-way to the Flood Control District shall be
delivered to said District.

      4.   Certification of City Council Action. At the time the Council
approves a final map, it shall also accept, subject to improvement, or
reject any offer of dedication. The City Clerk shall certify on the map
the action of the City Council.

      5.   Resolution of Acceptance. The City Clerk shall cause a
resolution of acceptance of dedications by the Council, to be filed with
the County Recorder.

      6.   If at the time the final map is approved, any streets, paths,
alleys, public utility easements, rights-of-way for local transit
facilities such as bus turnouts, benches, shelters, landing pads and
similar items, which directly benefit the residents of a subdivision, or
storm drainage easements are rejected, subject to Code of Civil
Procedure Section 771.010, the offer of dedication shall remain open in
accordance with State law; and the City Council may by resolution at any
later date, and without further action by the subdivider, rescind its
action and accept and open the streets, paths, alleys, rights-of-way for
local transit facilities such as bus turnouts, benches, shelters,
landing pads, and similar items, which directly benefit the residents of
a subdivision, or storm drainage easements for public use. Such
acceptance shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder.

   E.   Monuments. The provisions of this Subsection shall govern the
placement of monuments for a subdivision.

      1.   Boundary Monuments. At the time of making the survey for the
parcel map or the final map, the engineer or surveyor shall set
sufficient durable monuments to conform with the City’s engineering
standards and standards described in Business and Professions Code
Section 8771, so that another engineer or surveyor may readily retrace
the survey. The parcel map or the final map shall show said monuments
found or set at or near each boundary corner and at intermediate points
approximately one thousand (1,000) feet apart or at such lesser
distances as may be made necessary by topography or contour to ensure
accuracy in reestablishment of any point or line without unreasonable
difficulty. The precise position and character of each monument shall be
shown on the final map, together with the relative heights of the top of
each such monument with respect to the surface of the ground.

      2.   Deferment, Final Map or Parcel Map Monuments. Interior
monuments need not be set at the time the final map is filed if the
engineer or surveyor certifies on the map that the monuments will be set
on or before a specified later date. All monuments so deferred and the
furnishing of notes thereon as required in the City’s engineering
standards, shall be agreed to be set and furnished by the subdivider.
Such agreement shall be included and guaranteed in the “Agreement in
Lieu of Improvements” as provided by this Title 16, and accompanied by a
cash deposit.

      3.   Monument Inspection. All monuments shall be subject to
inspection and approval by the City Engineer.

      4.   Centerline Monuments. Durable monuments as described in the
City’s engineering standards shall be set.

   F.   Improvement Plans.

      1.   Submission of Improvement Plans. All improvement plans shall
be submitted to the appropriate department, checked and approved prior
to presentation of the final map to the City Council for acceptance. If
requesting a vesting map, the city may require submission of improvement
plans prior to tentative map approval.

      2.   Preparation of Plans and Specifications. All plans and
specifications in connection with improvements shall be prepared by or
under the supervision of a registered professional engineer.

      3.   Street and Drainage Plans and Profiles. Plans, profiles and
specifications of proposed street and drainage improvements shall be
submitted to the City Engineer, checked and approved prior to
presentation of the final map to the City Council for acceptance. These
plans and profiles shall show full details of the proposed improvements
which shall be according to the standards of the City.

      4.   Water Systems Plans. Plans, specifications and all necessary
details of the proposed water system to be installed shall be submitted
to the City Engineer for review, provided that the City Water Department
or other authorized water supplier has certified that it is willing and
able to supply water upon request.

      5.   Sanitary Sewer Plans. Plans, profiles, specifications and all
necessary details of the sanitary sewers to be installed shall be
submitted to the City Engineer and Adelanto Public Utility Authority for
review, or if a private sewage disposal company is to service the
subdivision, pursuant to the City’s authorization, the plans shall have
been approved by the City Engineer.

16.04.060 Subdivision Design and Improvement Standards.

The design and improvement standards found in this Section shall be
considered requirements for map approval.

   A.   Land-Use Standards. The land-use standards in this Subsection
shall be applied as requirements for map approval.

      1.   The minimum areas and dimensions of lots shall be as required
for the particular land use district classification in which the
property is classified by the Development Code; provided, however, that:

         a.   Lot or parcel side lines shall be approximately normal to
street lines.

         b.   Each lot or parcel on a dead-end street where the side
lines thereof are converging from front to the rear of such lot or
parcel, shall have an average width of not less than sixty (60) feet, or
that width required by the Development Code, whichever is greater,
measured along the front building setback line.

         c.   Each lot or parcel on a curved street where the side lines
thereof are converging from the front to the rear of such lot or parcel,
shall have an average width of not less than sixty (60) feet, or that
width required by the Development Code, whichever is greater.

         d.   Double frontage lots shall be discouraged except where
essential to provide separation of residential developments from major
or secondary highways or due to topographical conditions. When double
frontage lots are permitted, vehicular access rights shall be dedicated
to the City along the street designated by the planning agency.

         e.   The planning agency may require lots larger than the above
minimum sizes specified in multiple-residential, commercial and
industrial subdivisions.

            When lots or parcels twice or more the required area or
width are shown as part of a subdivision of land, the planning agency
may require such lots or parcels to be so established as to make
practical a further division into allowable building sites, without
injury to adjoining property.

         f.   In desert areas or in hilly or mountainous land, the
planning agency may require lots larger than required minimums. Larger
lots shall be required if it is deemed necessary in order to conform to
the land-use element of the General Plan.

         g.   Modification of the lot design standards may be allowed
under the following circumstances:

            (1)   Pursuant to the lot area regulations of Chapter 16.48;

            (2)   Pursuant to any planned development regulations of the
Development Code.

         h.   This Subsection does not apply to any lot or parcel which
the subdivider offers to dedicate to the County or any public agency or
district.

         i.   When a land use district classification line established
by the Development Code divides a lot or parcel, such lot or parcel
shall have the area and frontage required for that land use district
classification within the lot or parcel which has the greater area and
frontage requirements.

   B.   Circulation Standards. The circulation standards in this
Subsection shall be applied as requirements for map approval.

      1.   If the General Plan designates a general location of a
proposed highway and any portion thereof may be wholly or partially
within any proposed subdivision or may be affected by a proposed
subdivision prior to the approval of the proposed subdivision, a
specific alignment plan shall be prepared and adopted. Each such roadway
shall conform in width and alignment with that shown or indicated on the
general or specific plan or any standards adopted pursuant thereto. As a
condition of approval of said subdivision, the subdivider shall be
required to make dedications and construct such reasonable improvements
required by the specific alignment plan. Such requirements may be waived
by the planning agency upon recommendation of the City Engineer, if the
proposed highway is located upon a section line or its precise alignment
can be otherwise determined.

      2.   The following provisions shall apply as standards governing
circulation design and shall be required for map approval:

         a.   The circulation design of all subdivisions shall be
compatible and coordinate with the General Plan and the existing street
and land-use pattern in the surrounding area.

         b.   Any part-width highway lying along and adjacent to any
boundary of a subdivision shall have such a part-width and alignment as
will conform to the route lines shown on the master plan of highways
covering the same portion of such subdivision.

         c.   Each street intended to be extended into adjoining
property shall be terminated by a one (1) foot parcel of land extending
across the end of the street and, in the case of a part-width street, a
one (1) foot parcel of land shall extend along the entire side of the
street. The parcels shall be designated alphabetically as a lot, labeled
as a future street and offered for dedication by appropriate certificate
on the final or parcel map. The offer of dedication of the future street
shall include a restriction against the use of same for access purposes
until such time as it is accepted as a public street.

            Where it is determined by the planning agency that to
protect the public health, safety and general welfare, it is necessary
to extend a street beyond the boundaries of the subdivision for adequate
traffic needs, the subdivider shall provide separate deeds for the
necessary easements or rights-of-way to accommodate such traffic
facilities. Such rights-of-way shall be improved in accordance with City
standards or as required by the planning agency.

         d.   Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed six hundred (600) feet in
length, except as provided below and shall terminate with a turn-around
as specified in the adopted County road standards. The planning agency
may approve a cul-de-sac which exceeds six hundred (600) feet if the
planning agency finds that the cul-de-sac will not be injurious to the
public health, safety and welfare.

         e.   Road grades shall not exceed twelve percent (12%) unless
it can be demonstrated that in order to accomplish the objectives of the
General Plan a road grade in excess of twelve percent (12%) is
necessary. In such circumstances, the planning agency may approve a road
grade not to exceed fourteen percent (14%) grade for a distance not to
exceed five hundred (500) feet if a finding is made, based upon the
recommendations of the City Engineer and the Fire Marshal, that the
roadway will not create an unacceptable hazardous risk to the public
health, safety or welfare.

         f.   Access to a Subdivision. The subdivision and each phase
thereof shall have two (2) points of vehicular ingress and egress from
existing and surrounding streets, one (1) of which may be emergency
only. Where it can be shown that this requirement is a physical
impossibility or a cul-de-sac is proposed, this requirement may be
waived.

   C.   Public Services and Facilities. The public services and
facilities standards in this Subsection shall be applied as requirements
for map approval.

      1.   These standards shall regulate the placement of utilities
within the subdivision.

         a.   Utility lines, including but not limited to electric,
telephone, communications, street lighting and cable television, within
or directly serving each subdivision, shall be placed underground. The
subdivider is responsible for complying with the requirements of this
Subsection without expense to the City, and he shall make necessary
arrangements with the utility company for the installation of such
facilities. Appurtenances and associated equipment such as boxes and
meter cabinets and concealed ducts in an underground system may be
placed above ground. Waiver of the requirements for underground
utilities shall be made through the Public Utilities Commission. This
Subsection shall not apply to existing utility or common carrier routes
in use at the time the subdivision is completed which do not provide
service to the area subdivided. Aerial routes still in existence at the
time the subdivision is completed may be reinforced from time to time as
conditions dictate; however, all provisions of this Subsection shall be
subject to the requirements of any underground district created pursuant
to City ordinance or regulation and in existence prior to the
subdivision of the land or created subsequent thereto.

         b.   Overhead utility lines, where permitted, shall be located
at the rear of lots or parcels where practical, and along the sides of
lots or parcels where necessary.

         c.   If a local cable television system is available to serve
the project, any subdivision for which a tentative map is required
pursuant to Section 16.08.010.A. shall be designed to provide the
appropriate cable television system an opportunity to construct, install
and maintain on land as reserved for cable television service or by
separate instrument, any equipment necessary to extend cable television
services to each residential parcel in the subdivision.

            “Appropriate cable television systems,” as used in this
Subsection, means those franchised or licensed to serve the geographical
area in which the subdivision is located.

            This Subsection shall not apply to the conversion of
existing dwelling units to condominiums, community apartments, or stock
cooperatives.

         d.   Whenever the City imposes as a condition to its approval
of a tentative map or a parcel map a requirement that necessitates
replacing, undergrounding or permanently or temporarily relocating
existing facilities of a telephone corporation, cable television system,
common carrier or other public utility, the developer or subdivider
shall reimburse the appropriate facility provider for all costs for the
replacement, undergrounding or relocation. All these costs shall be
billed after they are incurred and shall include a credit for any
required advance payments and for the salvage value of any facilities
replaced. In no event shall the telephone corporation or cable
television system be reimbursed for costs incurred in excess of the cost
to replace the facilities with substantially similar facilities.

   D.   The standards herein are determined to be related to public
safety.

      1.   The standards herein shall govern drainage works.

         a.   When a subdivision lies in the path of existing
watercourses or overflows therefrom or natural drainage from upstream
properties, it shall not be approved unless adequate dedicated
rights-of-way or improvements are provided in a manner satisfactory to
the planning agency.

         b.   When, in the opinion of the planning agency, a subdivision
may cause an unnatural increase or concentration of surface waters onto
downstream property, said subdivision shall not be approved by the
planning agency unless drainage outlets are provided which will be
adequate to render the City and the County Flood Control District
harmless from any damages caused therefrom.

         c.   The location, type and size of watercourses or drainage
works, and all drainage of streets and other drainage works between
streets, shall be in accordance with City standards or as required by
the planning agency.

         d.   When, in the opinion of the planning agency, drainage
rights-of-way are necessary, the subdivider shall offer to dedicate upon
the final map of the subdivision the necessary rights-of-way for such
drainage facilities.

         e.   Where dedication is offered or granted for Flood Control
District rights-of-way, such rights-of-way shall be shown as lots
lettered alphabetically on the final map. Such offer of dedication or
grant shall be made by an appropriate certificate on the title sheet of
the final map.

      2.   The standards contained herein related to fire protection
measures shall be considered as requirements for map approval.

         a.   Subdivision design shall provide for safe and ready access
for fire and other emergency equipment and for routes of escape to
safely handle evacuations.

         b.   The subdivision shall be served by water supplies for
community fire protection in accordance with the standards set by the
Fire Marshal.

         c.   In hazardous fire areas, all flammable or combustible
vegetation shall be removed from around all structures, in accordance
with the requirements of the Uniform Fire Code. Where erosion is
probable, the slopes shall be planted with fire resistive ground cover.

      3.   The standards contained herein related to sewage disposal
systems shall be considered as requirements for map approval.

         a.   Subsurface sewage disposal systems shall be located as far
as practical from a perennial or intermittent stream pursuant to Uniform
Building Code and the requirements of the County Department of
Environmental Health Services and the Regional Water Quality Control
Board.

         b.   When a soils or a geologic hazards report for a
subdivision is prepared (either at the developer’s volition or as a
requirement of any governmental agency), it shall include findings and
recommendations concerning probable adverse effects of such hazards to
the integrity of water supply and sewage disposal facilities and
structures.

   E.   Environmental and Public Health. Lands to be subdivided for
residential, park, playground or land recreation purposes may be subject
to environmental quality standards as established by ordinances and
regulations of the different departments and agencies within the City.

16.04.070 Improvement Security.

The necessity for improvement security and the related requirements
shall be governed by the following regulations:

   A.   Requirement for Improvement Security. If all required
improvements, engineering and inspection are not satisfactorily
completed before the final map is approved, the owner or owners of the
subdivision shall, prior to the approval of the final map, enter as
contractor into an agreement with the City Council whereby in
consideration of the acceptance by the City Council of the streets,
easements and any other land offered for dedication, the contractor
agrees to furnish the equipment, labor and material necessary to
complete the work within the time specified in the agreement.

   B.   Amount of Improvement Security Required. To assure the City that
the work will be completed, improvement security shall be furnished to
guarantee the performance of any act or agreement in the following
amounts for the following purposes:

      1.   An amount, not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the
total estimated cost of the improvement or of the act to be performed,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the act or agreement.

      2.   An additional amount, not less than fifty percent (50%) nor
more than one hundred percent (100%) of the total estimated cost of the
improvement or the performance of the required act, securing payment to
the contractor, to the subcontractors, and to persons furnishing labor,
materials or equipment to them for the improvement or the performance of
the required act.

      3.   Whenever an entity required to furnish security in accordance
with this Section is a California non-profit corporation, funded by the
United States of America or one of its agencies, or funded by this State
or one of its agencies, the entity shall not be required to comply with
Subsections B.1. and B.2. of this Section, if the following conditions
are met:

         a.   The contractor installing the improvements has bonded to
the non-profit corporation and the City as co-obligee the amount of one
hundred percent (100%) of the contract for the faithful performance of
the work, and has further bonded to the non-profit corporation and the
City as co-obligee an amount of not less than fifty percent (50%) of the
contract for the payment of labor and materials, and those bonds comply
with the provisions of this Chapter.

         b.   All moneys payable to the contractor by the non-profit
corporation are deposited in a depository complying with the provisions
of Subdivision Map Act and out of which moneys progress payments are
conditioned upon:

            (1)   The contractor’s certification to the non-profit
corporation that all labor performed in the work, and all materials
furnished to and installed in the work, have been paid for in full to
the date of the certification.

            (2)   The written approval of the non-profit corporation.

            (3)   Final payment to the contractor not being made until
thirty-five (35) days shall have expired after the filing and recording
of the notice of completion of the work acceptance of the work by the
City in writing.

         c.   All certifications as to progress payments shall be
delivered through the United States mail to the non-profit corporation.
The term “progress payments” means payments made in compliance with the
schedule of partial payments agreed upon in the contract for the work.
No less than ten percent (10%) of the total contract price shall be
retained for the thirty-five (35) days following the filing of the
notice of completion.

         d.   An amount as determined by the City Engineer, but not more
than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total estimated cost of
improvements or performance of the required act necessary for the
guarantee and warranty of the improvement for a period of one (1) year
following the completion and acceptance thereof, against any defective
work or labor done, or defective materials furnished.

            As part of the obligation guaranteed by the security and in
addition to the face amount of the security, there shall be included
costs and reasonable expenses and fees, including reasonable attorney’s
fees incurred by the City in successfully enforcing the obligation
secured.

   C.   Type of Security Required. The furnishing of security in
connection with the performance of any act or agreement shall be one (1)
of the following, at the option of and subject to the approval of the
City Council:

      1.   Bond or bonds by one (1) or more duly authorized corporate
sureties.

      2.   A deposit, either with the City, responsible bank or trust
company, at the option of the City, of money or negotiable bonds of the
kind approved for securing deposits of public monies.

      3.   An instrument of credit from one (1) or more financial
institutions subject to regulation by the state or federal government,
and pledging that the funds necessary to carry out the act or agreement
are on deposit and guaranteed for payment, or a letter of credit issued
by such a financial institution.

      4.   Bonds to secure faithful performance and for the benefit of
laborers and material men of any agreement, shall be in substantially
the forms as shown in the Subdivision Map Act.

      5.   Such money, negotiable bond or instrument of credit shall be
a trust fund to guarantee performance and shall not be subject to
enforcement of a money judgment by any creditors of the depositor until
the obligation secured thereby is performed to the satisfaction of the
City.

   D.   Forfeiture on Failure to Complete. Upon the failure of a
subdivider to complete any improvements and work within two (2) years of
date agreement is executed, the City Council may, upon notice in writing
served by registered mail addressed to the last known address of the
person, firm or corporation signing such contract, determine that the
improvement work or any part thereof is uncompleted and may cause to be
forfeited to the City, such sum of money or bonds given for the faithful
performance of the work as may be necessary to complete such work.

   E.   Exoneration of Improvement Security. For projects involving
flood control or drainage works constructed within San Bernardino County
drainage easements, it shall be the duty of the City Engineer and/or the
County Director of Transportation/Flood Control/Airports to inspect or
receive certificate of completion of all improvements installed as to
their compliance with this Chapter and the City/County standards.

      The security furnished by the subdivider may be released in the
following manner:

      1.   Security given for faithful performance of any act or
agreement may be released upon the performance of the act or final
completion and acceptance of the required work.

      2.   Security securing the payment to the contractor,
subcontractors and to persons furnishing labor, materials or equipment
shall, after passage of the time within which claims of lien are
required to be recorded pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section
3114) of Chapter 2 of Title 15 of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code
and other acceptance of the work, be reduced to an amount equal to the
total claimed by all claimants for whom claims of lien have been
recorded and notice thereof given in writing to the Council or board,
and if no such claims have been recorded, the security shall be released
in full.

         Such release shall not apply to any required guarantee and
warranty period, nor to the amount of the security deemed necessary by
the City or County for such guarantee and warranty period, nor to cost
and reasonable expenses and fees, including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of enforcement.

      3.   Maintenance security necessary for guarantee and warranty of
the work for a period of one (1) year following completion and
acceptance thereof against any defective work or labor completed, or
defective materials furnished shall be released should no claims of such
defective work be filed with the City or board of supervisors. In the
event of such defective work, the security shall be held until all work
is considered satisfactory and acceptable by the City or County.

   F.   Reimbursement for (Oversized) Supplemental Improvements. The
planning agency may, at the request of a public agency (including the
City, the Adelanto Public Utility Authority or other City departments or
agencies), require that the improvements installed for the benefit of
the subdivision contain supplemental size, capacity or number for the
benefit of property not within the subdivision as a condition precedent
to the approval of a subdivision or parcel map, and thereafter
dedication of such improvements to the said public agency or authority.
However, the subdivider shall be reimbursed by said public agency or
authority for that portion of the cost of such improvements equal to the
difference between actual cost and the amount it would have cost the
subdivider to install such improvements pursuant to the provisions of
the Subdivision Map Act. Standards and procedures for requiring such
improvements and for reimbursement shall be contained in the operating
rules and regulations of said public agencies and shall be made a public
record.

   G.   Lien Agreements Permitted Only as Substitution for Existing
Securities. A Lien Agreement which shall be recorded against all of the
undeveloped lots in a subdivision, may be substituted only for an
existing security which was furnished under Subsections 16.04.070(A) and
(C) for required improvements under a subdivision improvement agreement,
if: no activity for the subdivision has transpired, no inspections have
occurred, and no permits for construction of improvements have been
issued within one (1) year of the recordation of the subdivision map,
and upon a finding by the City Council that it would not be in the
public interest to require the installation of the required improvements
sooner than two (2) years after the recordation of the map. The use of a
Lien Agreement shall be at the sole discretion of the City. For the
purposes of this subsection, "undeveloped lots" shall be defined as lots
that have not passed a final inspection and for which all required
associated improvements, as determined by the City Engineer, have not
been completed.

      1.   The City will not accept a Lien Agreement if any of the
properties against which the lien agreement is to be recorded are
subject to any mortgages, deeds of trust, or liens as evidenced by a
title insurance policy and title report issued forty-five (45) days
prior to the execution of the Lien Agreement. The lien shall have
priority of a judgment lien in an amount necessary to complete the
required improvements. Under no circumstances shall the City be
obligated to agree to subordinate the lien.

      2.   The City will not accept a Lien Agreement if the estimated
costs for the remaining required improvements, as determined by the City
Engineer, including, but not limited to, master planned or "missing
link" streets, drainage and sewer improvements, community facilities,
off-site improvements, fire access, fire flow and traffic signals,
originally required by conditions of approval, exceeds the fair market
value of the property based on a recent opinion of an independent,
licensed real estate appraiser which appraisal shall be furnished to the
City not fewer than forty-five (45) days prior to entering into any Lien
Agreement.

      3.   Once the Lien Agreement is recorded, the City shall not issue
any development or construction permits for the subdivided land until
the Lien Agreement is substituted with acceptable security authorized by
Subsections 16.04.070(A) and (C) and approved by the City Council.

      4.   The City will not accept a Lien Agreement as a substitute for
existing security if any individual lots have been sold; if any
construction permits, including but not limited to, any grading or
building permits; have been issued for any of the property, or if
construction of any of the required public improvements has begun.

      5.   Notwithstanding Subsection 4. above, the City may accept a
Lien Agreement from the owner of the subdivision as a substitute for
existing security if: any individual lots have been sold, grading has
commenced or if construction of any of the required public improvements
has begun on the subdivided land; provided that the grading is in strict
accordance with a valid grading permit, the construction of required
improvements is in strict accordance with plans approved by the City
Engineer, the required improvements have been accepted by the City, and
all the following conditions are met:

         a.   There is no need for the City to construct the required
improvements if the owner's project is abandoned or delayed for any
period of time;

         b.   The grading has no effect on the use, operation and
maintenance of existing streets or highways, public or private;

         c.   The grading has not caused the modification or closure of
any public access points, existing streets or highways, public or
private;

         d.   Additional drainage improvement and/or erosion controls
are not necessary and/or installed in the road right-of-way due to the
grading;

         e.   Delay of the construction of the owner's required
improvements do not affect or delay the improvements of an adjacent
owner who has already commenced work on his or her required
improvements;

         f.   The completion of any public improvements are not required
by the City's General Plan Circulation Element, Master Plan of Drainage,
Master Sewer Plan or Master Water Plan or for any other reason for the
purposes of preserving public health, safety or welfare;

         g.   The owner provides a separate security as specified by
Subsection 16.04.070(C)(2) for the maintenance of the graded land,
including without limitation, dust control, erosion control, fencing,
and any other maintenance as required by the City;

         h.   In the case that any individual lots have been sold, at
the discretion of the City and only after the City has performed a
comprehensive review of the development which may include approval of a
construction phasing plan, completion of required improvements to serve
the individual lots as determined by the City Engineer and other
requirements and conditions to be met prior to acceptance of the Lien
Agreement.

      6.   The Lien Agreement shall:

         a.   Be in a form acceptable to and approved by City Council,
the City Attorney and the City's Risk Manager.

         b.   Be executed by the Mayor on behalf of the City, and by all
current record owner(s) of the properties against which the lien
agreement is be recorded as evidenced by a title insurance policy and
title report issued within forty-five (45) days prior to the execution
of the Lien Agreement.

         c.   Be recorded with the San Bernardino County Recorder
against the entire subdivided property that is subject to the
substituted security.

         d.   Contain a detailed itemization of the remaining required
improvements and an estimate of costs approved by the City Engineer and
shall specify that the obligation of the owner or the owner's successors
in interest shall extend to the actual cost of construction of the
required improvements if such costs exceed the estimate.

         e.   Be attached to all of the undeveloped lots set forth in
the lien agreement and shall be indexed in the Grantor index to the
names of all record owners of the real property as specified above and
on the map, and in the Grantee Index to the City.

         f.   Contain a legal description of the entire subdivided
property which is the subject of the Lien Agreement.

         g.   State that the applicant must pay a fee, pursuant to
Section 3.60.030 for all costs reasonable born for the processing of the
Lien Agreement.

      7.   The owner shall agree that no individual lots shall be sold
while the Lien Agreement is in effect. However, fee title to the entire
property encumbered by the Lien Agreement or to all lots designated on
any individual final map which is encumbered by the Lien Agreement, may
be sold in the aggregate to a single purchaser, provided that the
proposed purchaser must, prior to or concurrent with assuming title to
the property, either:

         a.   Execute a new Lien Agreement in a form acceptable to the
City which will encumber the property to be conveyed, specifying the
respective obligations of the owners of property subject to the original
and new Lien Agreement, or

         b.   Provide acceptable alternative security in one of the
forms set forth in Subsections 16.04.070(A) and (C) for the required
improvements to be constructed as a condition to development of the
property conveyed.

      8.   The owner shall also be required to provide a cash deposit in
the amount of twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) to the City for the
purpose of reverting the property to acreage if the owner breaches or is
in default of the terms of the Lien Agreement. Any unused portion of any
such deposit shall be refunded to the owner, which deposited the amount
of twele thousand dollars ($12,000.00), following completion of such
reversion. If the cost of the reversion to acreage exceeds twelve
thousand dollars ($12,000.00), the owner shall pay such additional costs
to the City prior to recordation of the reversion to acreage map.

      9.   The owner shall substitute a security as provided for by
Subsections 16.04.070(A) and (C) prior to the issuance of any
development or construction permit to construct the improvements
required pursuant to this Chapter 16.04.

      10.   The Lien Agreement shall only be released upon substitution
of acceptable security for the Lien Agreement under Subsections
16.04.070(A) and (C) in order to begin construction of the required
improvements, to facilitate subsection 7., or upon recordation of a
reversion to acreage map.

      11.   Under no circumstances shall the Lien Agreement compel the
City to construct the required improvements.

[Ord. No. 506, Section 2, 10/12/11.]

16.04.080 Prohibition and Penalty.

This Section shall provide the prohibition and penalty provisions of
this Title.

   A.   Prohibition on Transfers. No person shall sell, lease or finance
any parcel or portion of parcels of real property, or commence
construction of any building for sale, lease or financing thereon,
except for model homes, or allow occupancy thereof, for which a final
map or parcel map is required by this Title and the Subdivision Map Act,
until such map thereof in full compliance with the provisions of this
Title has been filed for record by the County Recorder.

      1.   Conveyance of any part of a division of real property for
which a final or parcel map is required by this Title shall not be made
by parcel or block number, initial or other designation, unless and
until such map has been filed for record by the County Recorder.

      2.   A parcel created prior to March 4, 1972, in violation of the
provisions of this Title for which a permit or other grant of approval
for development has not been issued, shall be conclusively presumed to
be a legal parcel for purposes of sale by other than the owner of record
at the time the violation occurred, if each of the following conditions
are met:

         a.   The seller gives written notice to the buyer as follows:

      NOTICE: This parcel has been created in violation of the
Subdivision Map Act. You must obtain a certificate of compliance or
conditional certificate of compliance prior to obtaining a permit or
other grant of approval for development of the parcel. The conditions
imposed may significantly restrict your ability to develop the parcel.

         b.   At the time of sale, the seller causes to be filed for
record with the County Recorder the notice required by Section
16.04.080.A.2.a., including a detailed description of the real property,
the name of the seller and the name of the buyer. If the seller fails to
give the notice required by Section 16.04.080.A.2.a., the buyer shall
have those remedies provided by Sections 16.04.090.A. and B.

      3.   Buyers of land affected by the provisions of this Subsection
shall obtain a certificate of compliance or a conditional certificate of
compliance pursuant to Chapter 16.36 prior to obtaining a permit or
other grant of approval for development of the parcel or unit of land.

   B.   Prohibition on Issuance of Permits. No officer, board,
commission, agency, department, special district or authority of the
City shall issue any permit or grant any approval necessary to develop
any real property which has been divided, or which has resulted from a
division, in violation of the provisions of this Title if it finds or is
informed by the planning director that development of such real property
is contrary to the public health and safety. Prior to making such a
finding that the development of such real property is contrary to the
public health and safety, the planning director shall conduct a review.

      1.   At the review, the planning director shall consider all
information and evidence submitted. The decision of the planning
director may be appealed therefrom, within thirty (30) days, to the
Planning Commission by any person aggrieved, or by an officer, board,
department or agency of the City. The authority to deny such a permit or
such approval shall apply whether the applicant therefore was the owner
of the real property at the time of such violation, or whether the
applicant therefor, if the current owner of the real property, was with
or without actual or constructive knowledge of the violation at the time
of such violation, at the time of the acquisition of his interest in
such real property. If any officer, board, commission, agency,
department, special district or authority of the City issues any permit
or grants approval for the development of any such real property, it may
request a report from the planning director and impose any additional
conditions as would have been applicable to the division of the property
at the time the current owner of record acquired the property.

      2.   For parcels created before March 4, 1972, notice of the
review shall be given, by registered mail, to the owner of such real
property as shown on the latest equalized assessment roll book. The
review shall be held not less than fourteen (14) days nor more than
thirty (30) days after receipt by the owner of the notice of review.

   C.   Statement of Limitations. This Section does not apply to any
parcel or parcels of a subdivision offered for sale or lease, contract
for sale or lease, or sold or leased in compliance with or exempt from
any law regulating the design and improvement of subdivisions in effect
at the time the subdivision was established.

16.04.090 Remedies.

The following remedies are available pursuant to the provisions of this
Subsection.

   A.   Voiding of Sale by Grantee. Any deed of conveyance, sale or
contract to sell real property which has been divided, or which has
resulted from a division, in violation of the provisions of this Title
is voidable at the sole option of the grantee, buyer or person
contracting to purchase, heirs, personal representative or trustee in
insolvency or bankruptcy within one (1) year after the date of discovery
of the violation of the provisions of this Subsection but the deed of
conveyance, sale or contract to sell is binding upon any successor in
interest of the grantee, buyer or person contracting to purchase, other
than those above enumerated, and upon the grantor, vendor or person
contracting to sell, or any assignee, heir or devisee.

   B.   Superior Court Action by Grantee. Any grantee, or his successor
in interest, of real property which has been divided, or which has
resulted from a division, in violation of the provisions of this Title
may, within one (1) year of the date of discovery of such, violation
bring an action in the superior court to recover any damages he has
suffered by reason of such division of property. The action may be
brought against the person who divided the property in violation of the
provisions of this Title and against any successors in interest who have
actual or constructive knowledge of such a division of property.

   C.   Statement of Limitations. The provisions of this Section shall
not apply to the conveyance of any parcel of real property identified in
a certificate of compliance filed pursuant to Chapter 16.36, or
identified in a recorded final subdivision map, parcel map or official
map and after the date of recording. The provisions of this Section
shall not limit or affect in any way the rights of a grantee or his
successor in interest under any other provision of law.

      This Section does not bar any legal, equitable or summary remedy
to which any aggrieved local agency or other public agency, or any
person, firm or corporation may otherwise be entitled. Any such local
agency or other public agency, or such person, firm or corporation may
file a suit regarding any real property attempted to be subdivided or
sold, leased or financed in violation of this Title, or to restrain or
enjoin any attempted or proposed subdivision or sale, lease or financing
in violation of this Title, in the Superior Court of the County of San
Bernardino.

   D.   Request for Certificate of Compliance. Any person owning real
property may request a certificate of compliance in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 16.36.

   E.   Notice of Violation. Whenever the planning director has
knowledge that real property has been divided in violation of the
provisions of this Subsection then within the guidelines set forth by
the City Attorney, the planning director shall cause to be mailed by
certified mail to the then current owner of record of the property a
notice of intention to record a notice of violation, describing the real
property in detail, naming the owners thereof, and stating that an
opportunity will be given to the owner to present evidence. The notice
shall specify a time, date and place at which the owner may present
evidence to the planning agency why such notice should not be recorded.
The notice shall also contain a description of the violation(s) and an
explanation as to why the subject parcel is not lawful under the
subdivision (a) or (b) of Government Code Section 66412.6. Evidence
shall be presented by the owner to the planning agency no sooner than
thirty (30) days and no later than sixty (60) days from the date of
mailing. If, after the owner has presented evidence, it is determined
that there has been no violation, the planning director shall cause to
be filed for record with the County Recorder a release of the notice of
intention to record a notice of violation. If, however, after the owner
has presented evidence, the planning agency determines that the property
has in fact been illegally divided, or if within fifteen (15) days of
receipt of such copy the owner of such real property fails to inform the
planning agency of his objection to recording the notice of violation,
the planning agency shall cause to be filed for record with the County
Recorder the notice of violation. The notice of intention to record a
notice of violation and the notice of violation, when recorded, shall be
deemed to be constructive notice of the violation to all successors in
interest in such property. The County Recorder shall index the names of
the fee owners in the general index.

Chapter 16.08
TENTATIVE AND FINAL MAPS

Sections:

   16.08.010   Filing Criteria for Tentative and Final Maps

   16.08.020   Tentative Map Format

   16.08.030   Final Map Format

   16.08.040   Tentative Maps

   16.08.050   Final Maps

   16.08.060   Conditions of Map Approval

16.08.010 Filing Criteria for Tentative and Final Maps.

The provisions of this Section and the Subdivision Map Act shall govern
the necessity for tentative and final maps.

   A.   Tentative and final maps shall be required for all subdivisions
creating five (5) or more parcels, five (5) or more condominiums as
defined in Civil Code Section 783, a community apartment project
containing five (5) or more parcels or for the conversion of a multiple
dwelling containing five (5) or more dwelling units to a stock
cooperative except where:

      1.   A condominium is constructed or an existing structure is
converted to a condominium on a single parcel shown on a final map or
parcel map recorded after January 1, 1960; provided, however, that the
planning officer may require that a tentative and final map be required
for the purposes of obtaining improvements, additional easements and
dedications or for other circumstances which warrant the filing of a new
map; or

      2.   The land before division contains less than five (5) acres,
each parcel created by the division abuts upon a maintained public
street or highway; and no dedications or improvements are required by
the legislative body; or

      3.   Each lot created by the division has a gross area of twenty
(20) acres or more and has an approved access to a maintained public
street or highway, consisting of one of the following:

         a.   A dedicated right-of-way;

         b.   An offer to dedicate to the City a width as established by
the circulation element of the General Plan or the City’s right-of-way
standards and an easement of a strip of land at least twenty (20) feet
in width which expressly grants to the owner of the subdivision and any
successor(s) in interest the right to use the easement without limit as
to the quantity of vehicular traffic from each lot created by the owners
or successor(s) in interest to improved roadways in the City street
system, both of which abut or connect to a publicly maintained roadway
or connect to an existing traveled road where a prescriptive right by
user has been established for public use;

         c.   An offer to dedicate to the City and to the public in
general, an easement for public road, highway and public utility
purposes, of a width as established by the circulation element of the
General Plan or to the public in general can be accepted by public use,
but the easement or road constructed thereon shall not become a City
street until and unless the City Council, by appropriate resolution, has
caused said road to be accepted into the City street system;

         d.   An existing traveled way where a prescriptive right by
user has been established for public use by a court decree;

            Approved access shall not be approved by the City Engineer
unless the access substantially conforms to the alignment shown in the
circulation element where applicable and may practically and feasibly
applied to road use.

      4.   The land consists of a parcel or parcels of land having
approved access, as defined in Subsection 3. above, to a public street
or highway which comprises part of a tract of land zoned for industrial
or commercial development and which has the approval of the governing
body as to street alignments and widths; or

      5.   Each lot created by the division has a gross area of forty
(40) acres or more or each of which is a quarter of a quarter section or
larger.

   B.   A parcel map shall be required for those subdivisions described
in this Title as being excepted from the requirement for tentative and
final maps.

   C.   Should a subdivider wish to file multiple final maps for a
development project that will be phased, then one of the following shall
be completed:

      1.   The subdivider, at the time the tentative map is filed, shall
inform the planning agency of the subdivider’s intention to file
multiple final maps on such tentative map; or

      2.   After filing of the tentative map, the planning agency and
the subdivider concur in the filing of multiple final maps.

         A subdivider filing multiple final maps shall show the boundary
limits of each phase and designate the sequence of filing to the
satisfaction of the development review committee.

   D.   A final map shall be required for a cemetery and shall be
recorded only with the approval of the County Surveyor, subject to the
requirements imposed by Title 17 of this Code and Division 8 of the
State of California Health and Safety Code.

   E.   Notices of intention to convert residential real property into a
condominium project, a community apartment project or a stock
cooperative project shall be made as required by Government Code Section
66427.1 prior to the filing of such map.

   F.   At the time of filing a map for a subdivision to be created from
the conversion of a mobile home park to another use, the subdivider
shall also file a report on the impact of the mobile home park
conversion pursuant to Government Code Section 66427.4. At least thirty
(30) days prior to public hearing for such a conversion, the County
shall inform the applicant in writing of the provisions of California
Civil Code Section 798.56 and all applicable local requirements which
impose upon the applicant a duty to notify residents and mobile home
owners of the mobile home park of the proposed change in use.

   G.   At the time of filing a map for the conversion of a stock
cooperative or a community apartment project to a condominium, the
subdivider shall submit documents showing that the requirements of
Government Code Section 66452.10 have been met.

16.08.020 Tentative Map Format.

The content and form of tentative maps shall be governed by the
provisions of this Section.

   A.   Standards and Preparation. The tentative map shall be prepared
by or under the direction of a registered civil engineer licensed to
practice surveying or licensed land surveyor in accordance with the
Subdivision Map Act, the Adelanto Municipal Code, and any other
ordinances, statutes or laws, or any amendments thereto, pertaining to
the use, sale or lease of land. The tentative map shall be prepared in
compliance with the officially adopted general, community or specific
plans or any amendments thereto, adopted pursuant to the State planning
and zoning law and in accordance with the standard streets and highways
plan adopted by the City Council, as amended. The tentative map shall
show the location of streets and property lines bounding the property
and shall conform to all of the following provisions and the standards
found on record as prescribed by the planning agency.

      1.   Each tentative map shall be drawn to an engineer’s scale and
clearly show the details of the plan thereon. Wherever practicable, such
scale shall be one (1) inch to one hundred (100) feet or less; and in no
case shall the scale be smaller than one (1) inch to two hundred (200)
feet.

      2.   The tentative maps shall show or be accompanied by the
following information:

         a.   Development proposed on the subdivision (lot sale or
building program);

         b.   Source, name of supplier, quality and an estimate of
available quantity of water, or, if to be served by an established
mutual water company or an established public utility, a letter shall be
furnished to indicate that satisfactory arrangements have been made or
can be made for water supply;

         c.   Type of street improvements, utilities and streetlights
which are proposed to be installed. Pursuant to Government Code Section
66473.3 and Section 16.04.060.C.1.c. of this Code, this information
shall include the type of cable television systems to be installed, if
any cable television system is available;

         d.   Proposed Method of Sewage Disposal. If by sewers, the
applicant must furnish a letter from an authorized representative of the
entity or agency which will provide such sanitary sewer service,
assuring that such entity or agency can and will accept for disposal
sewage generated on the land under consideration after its improvement.
The planning agency shall give written notice to the entity or agency
which owns the related sewage treatment plant prior to issuance of the
written determination of filing of the proposed subdivision. This filing
requirement has not been met when, within fourteen (14) days from the
date of providing of the above required notice, the entity or agency
which owns the related sewage treatment plant has submitted an
independently certified engineering report to the office of planning
which demonstrates that adequate sewage treatment plan capacity is not
available;

         e.   The drainage area tributary to the subdivision and a
statement setting forth in detail the manner in which storm runoff will
enter the subdivision, the manner in which it will be carried through
the subdivision, and the manner in which disposal beyond the subdivision
boundaries will be accomplished;

         f.   Topographical and contour data shall be shown pursuant to
adopted County standards;

         g.   The widths and locations of all recorded easements which
are to remain;

         h.   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of utilities,
school districts, fire protection agencies, and cable television
services required in Section 16.04.060.C.1.c., serving the tract;

         i.   Remainder parcels shall be indicated as a “remainder
parcel” and shall be subject to review for design access, water and
sewer availability and other such improvements as may be necessary to
protect the public health, safety and welfare and are consistent with
the intent of this Title. Waiver of improvements may be granted for
remainder parcels where the size exceeds five (5) acres;

         j.   When any change is made by the subdivider in the statement
given in pursuance of this Section, such change or changes shall be
submitted in writing to the planning agency and approved prior to the
recording of the final map;

         k.   In the case of a subdivision to convert a mobile home park
to another use, the subdivider shall file a report on the impact of the
conversion upon the displaced residents of the mobile home park to be
converted. The report shall discuss the availability of adequate
replacement space in mobile home parks in determining the impact of the
conversion on displaced mobile home park residents. The subdivider shall
make a copy of the report available to each resident of the planning
agency is to take action upon the tentative map.

         l.   In the case of a vesting tentative map, at the time it is
filed it shall have printed conspicuously on its face the words “Vesting
Tentative Map.”

   B.   Tract Number. Prior to filing a tentative map of a subdivision
or reversion to acreage, a licensed engineer or surveyor shall obtain a
tract number or numbers from the County Recorder. When a number has been
assigned by the County Recorder for the subdivision of a particular
parcel of land, the subdivider shall place this same number upon each
tentative map of the subdivision; and the number issued shall not
thereafter be changed or altered in any manner upon the tentative map of
the subdivision unless and until a new number shall have been assigned
by the County Recorder.

16.08.030 Final Map Format.

The content and form of final maps shall be governed by the provisions
of this Section.

   A.   Standards and Preparation. The final map shall be prepared by,
or under the direction of, a registered civil engineer licensed to
practice surveying or a licensed land surveyor; shall be based upon a
survey; and shall conform to all of the following provisions, the
California Subdivision Map Act and the County Surveyor’s standards as
adopted by the Board of Supervisors, including, but not limited to, the
following:

      1.   It shall be legibly drawn, printed or reproduced by a process
guaranteeing a permanent record in black on tracing cloth or
polyester-base film. Certificates, affidavits and acknowledgments shall
be legibly stamped or printed upon the map with opaque ink. If ink is
used on a polyester-base film, the ink surface shall be coated with a
suitable substance to assure permanent legibility;

      2.   The size of each sheet shall be eighteen (18) inches by
twenty-six (26) inches. A marginal line shall be drawn completely around
each sheet, leaving an entirely blank margin of one (1) inch. The scale
of the map shall be large enough to show all details clearly, and enough
sheets shall be used to accomplish this end. The particular number of
the sheet and the total number of sheets comprising the map shall be
stated on each of the sheets, and its relation to each adjoining sheet
shall be clearly shown;

      3.   All survey and mathematical information and data necessary to
locate all monuments and to locate and retrace any and all interior and
exterior boundary lines appearing thereon shall be shown, including
bearings and distances of straight lines, and radii and arc length or
chord bearings and length of all curves, and such information as may be
necessary to determine the location of the centers of curves and ties to
existing monuments used to establish the subdivision boundaries;

      4.   Each lot shall be numbered and each street shall be named;

      5.   The exterior boundary of the land included within the
subdivision shall be indicated by an opaque ink line three (3) times as
wide as the widest line on the map, excluding the border line. The map
shall show the definite location of the subdivision and particularly its
relation to surrounding surveys;

      6.   If the map includes a remainder parcel and the gross area of
the remainder parcel or similar named parcel is five (5) acres or less,
it shall be surveyed and mapped. If the remainder parcel or similar
named parcel is more than five (5) gross acres, that parcel shall show
record information and parcel size only;

      7.   Proposed public areas and drainage easements shall be shown;

      8.   Additional notes which do not affect record title interests
shall not be shown on the final map. Where a composite development plan
has been required, a prominent note shall be placed below the surveyor’s
notes on the final map in one-quarter (1/4) inch high, bolded block
letters, stating:

 

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  COMPOSITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN NOTE:
  A Composite Development Plan (C.D.P.) affecting this map is on file in the Building and Safety Department.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

   B.   Title Sheets. Prior to filing, those certificates and
acknowledgments set forth in this Title shall appear on the title sheet
of the final map and may be combined where appropriate. The title sheet
shall also contain a certificate, signed and acknowledged by all parties
having any record title interests in real property subdivided,
consenting to the preparation and recordation of the final map, and is
required except as provided by the Subdivision Map Act.

      Each sheet of final map shall also contain a title, consisting of
the number of the subdivision and a subtitle consisting of a description
of all property being subdivided by reference to such map or maps of the
property shown thereon, as shall have been previously recorded or filed
with the County Clerk pursuant to a final judgment in any action in
partition, or shall have been previously filed in the office of the
County Recorder, or by reference to the plat of any United States
Survey. The title sheet shall also show, in a form acceptable to the
City Engineer, such appropriate certificates and acknowledgments as
required in the Subdivision Map Act, or any additional certificates as
required by the City standards.

   C.   Certificates on Final Maps. The certificates on final maps shall
be governed by the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and the final
and parcel map standards established by the City Engineer’s office and
as adopted and amended by the City Council.

      1.   Dedications of, or offers to dedicate interests in real
property for specified public purposes, shall be made by a certificate
on the title page of the final map, signed and acknowledged by those
parties having any record title interest in the real property being
subdivided, subject to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act.

         a.   In the event that any street shown on a subdivision map is
not offered for dedication, the certificate may contain a statement to
this effect. If such statement appears on the map and if the map is
approved by the Council, the use of any such street or streets by the
public shall be permissive only.

         b.   Any offer of dedication of real property for street or
public utility easement purposes shall be deemed not to include any
public utility facilities located on or under such real property unless
an intent to dedicate such facilities is expressly stated in the
certificate, and then only to the extent so stated.

         c.   Any dedication or agreements required within the remainder
parcel of a final map shall be executed by the legal owners of record
and any holder in a beneficial interest in a trust deed.

      2.   The final map shall contain a certificate for execution by
the City Clerk, stating that the board approved the map and accepted,
subject to improvement, or rejected on behalf of the public, any real
property offered for dedication or public use in conformity with the
terms of the offer of dedication.

      3.   A certificate is required indicating the engineer or surveyor
responsible for the survey and final map. This certificate shall give
the date of the survey, state that the survey and final map were made by
the engineer or surveyor and indicate that the survey is true and
complete as shown.

         a.   The certificate shall also state that all the monuments
are of the character and occupy the positions indicated or that they
will be set in such positions on or before a specified later date. The
certificate shall also state that the monuments are, or will be,
sufficient to enable the survey to be retraced.

         b.   At least one (1) exterior boundary line of the land being
subdivided shall be adequately monumented or referenced before the map
may be recorded.

      4.   A certificate by the City Engineer shall be provided, stating
that:

         a.   The City Engineer has examined the map;

         b.   The subdivision as shown is substantially the same as it
appeared on the tentative map and any approved alterations thereof;

         c.   All provisions of this Title and any local ordinances
applicable at the time of approval of the tentative map have been
complied with;

         d.   The City Engineer is satisfied that the map is technically
correct.

      5.   The City Engineer shall complete and file with the City
Clerk, the certificate as required by this Section within twenty (20)
days from the time the final map is submitted to the City Engineer by
the subdivider for approval.

      6.   At the time the subdivider presents the final map, there
shall be presented releases executed by the various public utilities,
including cable television services identified in Section
16.08.020.A.2.c., as to location of their facilities and that
satisfactory arrangements have been made for the establishment of any
easements required for such facilities. The failure of any public
utility to notify the City Engineer of the need for such easements
within twenty (20) days of receipt of the advance copy of the final map
shall be deemed notice that said provisions and arrangements have been
made, and no further release shall be required.

16.08.040 Tentative Maps.

The following provisions shall govern the review of tentative and
vesting tentative maps.

   A.   Action on Tentative Map.

      1.   The planning agency shall approve, conditionally approve,
extend, or disapprove the map or maps of the proposed subdivision within
fifty (50) days after an application for a tentative map has been deemed
complete and accepted for filing except as otherwise provided by the
Subdivision Map Act. An official copy of the planning agency’s action
shall be filed with the tentative map and be reported directly to the
subdivider and to the Real Estate Commission of the State of California.
If no action is taken upon a tentative map by the planning agency within
the time limits specified in this Title or any authorized extension
thereof, the tentative map as filed shall be deemed to be approved
insofar as it complies with other applicable requirements of this Title,
other applicable ordinances and all applicable state laws; and it shall
be the duty of the City Clerk or the secretary of the planning agency to
certify such approval. This Section shall be inapplicable to extensions
of time which are reasonable and required in order to comply with any
provision of state law, including the requirements for compliance with
the California Environmental Quality Act of 1970, provided, however, if
an environmental impact report (EIR) is prepared, the fifty (50) day
period specified in this Section shall not be applicable; and the
planning agency shall take action upon the tentative map within
forty-five (45) days after certification of the EIR. Any revised
tentative map or portion thereof filed with the planning agency shall
comply with the requirements in effect at the time such revised map is
considered by the planning agency.

      2.   A tentative map shall not be approved in the following cases:

         a.   In the case of a conversion of residential real property
to a condominium project, community apartment project or stock
cooperative, the planning agency shall not approve the tentative map
unless evidence is provided by the subdivider that proper notification
has been given to each of the tenants of the proposed conversion
notifying of the subdivider's intent to convert.

         b.   In the case of a conversion of a stock cooperative or a
community apartment project to a condominium, the planning agency shall
not approve a tentative map unless evidence is provided by the
subdivider, as required by Government Code Section 66452.10, that the
required number of owners in the cooperative or project, as specified in
the bylaws or other organizational documents, have voted in favor of
such conversion.

         c.   The planning agency shall not approve a tentative map or a
parcel map for which a tentative map was not required, if it finds that
the land is subject to a contract entered into pursuant to the
California Land Conservation Act of 1965 (Chapter 7 [commencing with
Government Code Section 51200] of Division 1 of Title 5) and that the
resulting parcels following a subdivision of that land would be too
small to sustain their agricultural use. For purposes of this Section,
land shall be presumed to be in parcels too small to sustain their
agricultural use if the land is: (1) less than ten (10) acres in size in
the case of prime agricultural land, or (2) less than forty (40) acres
in size in the case of land which is not prime agriculture land. For
purposes of this Section, agricultural land shall be presumed to be in
parcels large enough to sustain their agricultural use if the land is:
(1) at least ten (1) acres in size in the case of prime agricultural
land, or (2) at least forty (40) acres in size in the case of land which
is not prime agricultural. The planning agency may approve a subdivision
with parcels smaller than those listed above if the findings in Section
16.12.405.D., along with the other applicable findings, are made or the
land within the subdivision is subject to a contract when one of the
following has occurred:

            (1)   The Local Agency Formation Commission has approved the
annexation of the land to a City, and the City will not succeed to the
contract as provided in Government Code Sections 51243 and 51243.5;

            (2)   Written notice of non-renewal of the contract has been
served prior to March 7, 1985, as provided in Government Code Section
51245;

            (3)   Written notice of non-renewal of the contract has been
served on or after March 7,1985, as provided in Government Code Section
51245, and, as a result of that notice, there are no more than three (3)
years remaining in the term of the contract;

            (4)   The City Council has granted tentative approval for
cancellation of the contract as provided in Government Code Section
51282.

      3.   The approval or conditional approval by the planning agency
of any revised or new tentative map shall annul all previous designs and
approvals thereof.

      4.   When modifications in design are conditions of approval of a
tentative map, the subdivider shall, at least thirty (30) days prior to
the submission of final maps, submit ten (10) copies of the tentative
map as modified to the planning agency for distribution to the
development review committee representatives.

   B.   Planning Director Referral. When acting as the planning agency
for subdivisions where a tentative and final map are required, the
planning officer shall determine, prior to taking an action to approve,
conditionally approve, extend or deny the application, that the project
is noncontroversial. For the purpose of this Section, “noncontroversial”
shall mean: (1) that no member of the development review committee
objects to the project or any portion thereof; (2) no specific written
request has been received requesting public hearing review of the
project from person(s) notified in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 16.12; and (3) in the opinion of the planning director, there
has been no substantial objection to the proposed project from members
of the public. If the planning director determines the project to be
controversial, the project shall be referred to the Planning Commission
for action, pursuant to Chapter 16.12.

   C.   Review of Tentative Maps by Other Agencies. When a tentative map
has been properly filed and the subdivider has furnished the required
number of copies, the office of planning shall, within three (3) County
business days of the filing and review cycle deadline (Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays excluded) forward a copy or copies thereof to the
following:

      1.   Fire Marshal, who shall distribute to the appropriate fire
jurisdiction;

      2.   Building Official;

      3.   District Engineer of the California Department of
Transportation and Business and Transportation Agency, State of
California, if a federal or state highway is involved;

      4.   Other public agencies or officers who, as determined by the
planning agency, have an interest in the proposed subdivision;

      5.   Any appropriate public utilities and cable television system.

   D.   Reports on Tentative Map. Any report or recommendation on a
tentative map by the staff of the planning agency or the development
review committee to the planning agency shall be in writing and a copy
thereof sent to the subdivider, or any tenant of the subject property in
the case of a proposed conversion of residential real property to a
condominium project, community apartment project or stock cooperative
project, at least three (3) days prior to any hearing or action on such
map by such planning agency. In the event of failure of any officer,
department, municipality, district or agency to report to the planning
agency in writing within twenty (20) days after the filing deadline of
the tentative map, it shall be deemed that said officer, department,
municipality, district or agency has no objections to the proposed map.

      1.   Wherever possible, the reports and recommendations of
reviewing departments shall be uniform in content and form and shall be
presented to the planning agency by the chairperson of the development
review committee or designee.

      2.   Required Action in the Case of Waste Discharge Violations.
The development review committee shall report to the planning agency as
to whether the discharge of waste from the proposed subdivision into an
existing community sewer system will result in the violation of existing
requirements prescribed by a California Regional Water Quality Control
Board pursuant to Division 7 (commencing with Section 13000) of the
Water Code. In the event that the planning agency finds that the
proposed waste discharge would result in or add to violation of the
requirements of such board, it may disapprove the tentative map or maps
of the subdivision or take such other action as may be permitted by the
policies of the City.

   E.   Expiration of Approval. The initial approval period of an
approved or conditionally approved tentative map and any associated
development application shall expire twenty-four (24) months after its
approval or conditional approval unless an extension is granted as
hereinafter provided or as otherwise provided by the Development Code.
The expiration of the approved or conditionally approved tentative map
shall terminate all proceedings, and no final or parcel map of all or
any portion of the real property included within such tentative map
shall be filed without first processing a new tentative map.

      This initial approval period may be extended in the following
circumstances:

      1.   If the subdivider is subject to a requirement of one hundred
thousand dollars ($125,000.00), subject to an inflation adjustment, or
more to construct or improve or finance the construction or improvement
of public improvements outside the boundaries of the tentative map in
order to obtain a final map, each filing of a final map that is part of
a series of multiple final maps authorized by Section 16.08.040.C. of
this Code and Government Code Section 66456.1 shall extend the
expiration of the approved or conditionally approved tentative map and
any associated development project by thirty-six (36) months from the
date of its expiration as provided in this Section, or the date of the
previously filed final map, whichever is later. Such extensions shall
not extend the tentative map more than ten (10) years from its approval
or conditional approval. However, a tentative map on property subject to
a development agreement authorized by Article 2.5 (commencing with
Section 65864) of Chapter 4 of Division 1 of the Government Code may be
extended for the period of time provided for in the agreement, but not
beyond the duration of the agreement. The number of phased final maps
which may be filed shall be determined by the planning agency at the
time of the approval or conditional approval of the tentative map. It
shall be the responsibility of the developer to notify the office of
planning of the filing of the final map so that appropriate arrangements
may be made to document such extension.

         “Public improvements,” as used in this Section, includes
traffic controls, streets, roads, highways, freeways, bridges,
overcrossings, street interchanges, flood control or storm drain
facilities, sewer facilities, water facilities and lighting facilities.

      2.   This period of time shall not include any period of time
during which a moratorium, imposed after approval of the tentative map,
is in existence, provided however that the length of the moratorium does
not exceed five (5) years.

         Once a moratorium is terminated, the map shall be valid for the
same period of time as that which remained of the map approval period at
the time that the moratorium was imposed. However, if the remaining time
is less than one hundred twenty (120) days, the map shall be valid for
one hundred twenty (120) days following the termination of the
moratorium.

      3.   In addition, this period of time, including any extension
granted pursuant to Subsection F. of this Section, shall not include any
period of time during which a lawsuit has been filed and is pending in a
court of competent jurisdiction involving the approval or conditional
approval of a tentative map if a stay of the time period is approved by
the County pursuant to this Section. Within ten (10) days of the service
of the initial petition or complaint in the lawsuit upon the County, the
subdivider may apply to the County for a stay pursuant to the County’s
adopted procedures. Within forty (40) days after receiving the
application, the County shall either stay the time period for up to five
(5) years or deny the requested stay.

   F.   Time Extensions on Approved Tentative Maps and/or any Related
Development Applications. The planning director may approve extensions
of time for a period or periods not exceeding a total of thirty-six (36)
additional months unless otherwise provided by the Development Code. Any
application of a subdivider for such extension of time shall be made in
writing to the planning director not less than thirty (30) days prior to
the expiration date. Such extension of time is subject to an extension
fee as found in the City fees resolution. If the final map is not
recorded within the approved extension, then the subdivision must be
refiled in accordance with all provisions of this Title.

   G.   Withdrawal of Tentative Maps. Any subdivider or record owner of
property upon which a tentative map has been filed may withdraw such map
at any time period prior to the recordation of the final map thereof.
Notice of such withdrawal shall be made in writing to the planning
agency. Refund in filing fees for any such map withdrawn shall be made
in accordance with the City fee resolution.

   H.   Appeal by Subdivider.

      1.   The subdivider, or any tenant of the subject property in the
case of a proposed conversion of residential real property to a
condominium project, community apartment project, or stock cooperative
project or any interested person, may appeal any action of the planning
department with respect to a tentative map. Any such appeal shall be
filed with the planning department for an action taken by the planning
director, or with the City Clerk for an action taken by the Planning
Commission in accordance with Chapter 16.12. Such appeal shall be filed
within ten (10) days after the action of the planning agency from which
the appeal is being taken.

      2.   After the filing of an appeal, the appeal body shall set the
matter for public hearing. Such hearing shall be held within thirty (30)
days after the date of a request filed by the subdivider or the
appellant. Notice of the public hearing shall be as required for any
other Planning Commission or City Council action in which the reviewing
authority hears public testimony for and against the land use proposal,
reviews evidence and renders its decision in connection with a land use
approval. Within ten (10) days following the conclusion of the hearing,
the appeal hearing body shall render its decision. The decision of the
appeal hearing body shall comply with the provisions of this Title and
shall include all findings required by this Title. If the appeal hearing
body fails to act upon an appeal within the time limit specified in this
Title, the action of the planning agency shall be deemed to be upheld;
and it shall be the duty of the secretary of the Planning Commission or
the City Clerk, whichever body has heard the appeal, to certify such
action. The fee for filing of an appeal shall be established in the
City’s fee schedule.

16.08.050 Final Maps.

The following provisions shall govern the filing and recording of the
final map:

   A.   Filing the Advance Copy of the Final Map. After receipt of the
report of the planning agency approving or conditionally approving the
tentative map, and at least fifty (50) days prior to the expiration of
the approval or conditional approval or any approved extension of time
as provided by this Title, the subdivider may cause the real property
included within the map, or any part thereof, to be surveyed and a final
map thereof prepared in accordance with the approved or conditionally
approved tentative map, and an advance copy of the final map to be
submitted to the City Engineer. The advance copy of the final map shall
be accompanied by the following information:

      1.   Traverse sheets showing closures with allowable limits of
exterior boundary and of irregular blocks and lots in subdivision;

      2.   Preliminary title report;

      3.   Fees for examining final map in amount specified in the
City’s fee schedule adopted by the City Council;

      4.   In the case of the conversion of residential property to a
condominium, community apartment or stock cooperative, evidence shall be
submitted that the notices of intention to convert to prospective
tenants, as required by Government Code Section 66427.1, have been
given;

      5.   Composite development plan as subject to the provisions of
Chapter 16.20;

      6.   Any additional information as maybe required by the planning
agency or City standards shall be submitted to the appropriate City
department.

         The City Engineer shall be the primary coordinator in seeing
that the conditions of approval of the tentative map have been
fulfilled. The City Engineer shall transmit maps to and request written
reports from the City departments and public utilities, including any
cable television systems, which have submitted recommendations on the
tentative map. Within twenty (20) days after receipt of such an advance
copy of the final map, said department or utility shall issue a
preliminary written report as to the compliance or noncompliance of the
advance final map as to the matters under its jurisdiction.

   B.   Filing Official Copy of the Final Map. If the advance copy of
the final map has been found satisfactory by the City Engineer, the
subdivider shall cause the final map to be officially filed with the
City Engineer at least twenty (20) days prior to expiration of the
approval or conditional approval or any approved extension of time as
provided by this Title. The final map shall not be officially filed
until the engineer has received notification from the City Engineer that
all provisions of the tentative map approval, the Subdivision Map Act,
City Code and City standards have been complied with. The official
filing of the final map with the City Engineer will constitute the final
map filing date.

   C.   Checking and Reports to the City Council.

      1.   After the issuance of a receipt for the official filing of
the final map, the City Engineer shall examine it as to sufficiency of
affidavits and acknowledgments, correctness of surveying data,
mathematical data and computations, and other matters which may require
checking to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Subdivision Map
Act and this Title.

      2.   If the final map is found to be in substantial compliance
with the tentative map and is in correct form and the matters shown
thereon are sufficient and the City Engineer is satisfied that all of
the conditions of approval have been met, City Engineer shall endorse
approval thereon. The City Engineer shall combine with the final map the
agreements, easements and securities as required by this Title. Such
material shall be transmitted to the City Council for its consideration
of the final map.

   D.   Approval of Final Map by the City Council.

      1.   The City Council shall, within a period of ten (10) days
after the filing of the final map for approval or at its next regular
meeting after the meeting at which it receives the map, whichever is
later, approve the map if it conforms to all the requirements of the
Subdivision Map Act and this Title applicable at the time of approval or
conditional approval of the tentative map and any rulings made
thereunder or, if it does not so conform, disapprove the map.

      2.   If the City Council does not approve or disapprove the map
within the prescribed time, or any authorized extension thereof, and the
map conforms to all said requirements and rulings, it shall be deemed
approved, and the City Clerk shall certify its approval thereon.

   E.   Time Limit for Filing Final Map. If the subdivider fails to file
the final map with the County Recorder and the required accompanying
data with the appropriate City or County departments within twenty-four
(24) months after the date of first approval by the planning agency or
within any authorized extension of time, the tentative map approval or
conditional approval shall become void. In such a case, a new filing fee
shall be paid; and a new tentative map approval shall be obtained.

   F.   Improvement Agreement. If at the time of approval of the final
map by the Council, any improvements required by local ordinance or as a
condition of the approval of the tentative tract map have not been
completed in accordance with City standards applicable at the time of
the approval or conditional approval of the tentative map, the Council,
as a condition precedent to approval of the final map, shall require the
subdivider to enter into an agreement with the Council upon mutually
agreeable terms to thereafter complete such improvements at the
subdivider’s expense. The Council shall require that performance of such
agreement is guaranteed by appropriate securities.

   G.   If sixty (60) days prior to the submittal of a final or parcel
map, the subdivider has failed to comply with the tentative map or minor
subdivision plot plan conditions which require the subdivider to
construct or install off-site improvements on land in which neither the
subdivider nor the City has sufficient title or interest, including an
easement or license, then at the time the parcel or final map is filed
with the local agency, to permit the improvements to be made, the
subdivider shall enter into an agreement with the City through its
department of engineering contract services to pay all costs of the City
in acquiring such property. The City shall have one hundred twenty (120)
days from the filing of the final map or parcel map, pursuant to
Section 66457 of the Subdivision Map Actt, to obtain interest in the
land to permit the improvement to be made by negotiation or proceedings
pursuant to Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3 of the
Code of Civil Procedure, including proceedings for immediate possession
of the property under Article 3 (commencing with Section 1255.410) of
Chapter 6 of such Title. In the event the City fails to meet the one
hundred twenty (120) day time limitation, the condition for construction
of off-site improvements shall be conclusively deemed to be waived.
Prior to approval of the final map, the City may require the subdivider
to enter into an agreement to complete the improvements pursuant to
Subsection F. of this Section above at such time as the City acquires an
interest in the land which will permit the improvements to be made.

      “Off-site improvements,” as used in this Subsection, do not
include improvements which are necessary to assure replacement or
construction of housing for persons and families of low or moderate
income, as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 50093.

16.08.060 Conditions of Map Approval.

The conditions of map approval shall be as follows:

   A.   Subdivisions for Which a Tentative and Final Map is Required. As
a condition of approval of a map of five (5) or more parcels, the
planning agency may require such dedications and improvements as are
necessary to ensure that the lots to be created are provided with
adequate public services and utilities, possibly including any
appropriate cable television services, to meet the needs of future
residents or users; are of adequate design in all respects; act to
mitigate any potential environmental impacts identified in the
environmental impact report or by other means; and provide for proper
grading and erosion control, including the prevention of sedimentation
or damage to off-site property.

      All improvements shall be in accordance with adopted City
standards.

   B.   Access.

      1.   Except as provided below, lots created by a subdivision of
land shall abut upon a recorded dedicated public right-of-way of a width
as established by the circulation element or shall be assured of access
to the City road system by an approved access which connects a lot or
lots to a maintained public street or state highway.

      2.   The planning agency may waive the requirements for approved
access to subdivisions having lot sizes of forty (40) gross acres or
more when all of the following findings are made:

         a.   The applicant is or will be subject to severe hardship
unless the waiver is approved; and

         b.   There is an existing traveled roadway which has been in
existence for at least five (5) years which roadway is at least twenty
(20) feet in width at all points; and

         c.   The roadway has capability for normal passenger car use to
each lot in the subdivision.

      3.   Private road easements may be approved for access to each lot
if it is determined that public street access cannot be provided due to
certain title limitations or topographical conditions.

      4.   Road easements of record established prior to the effective
date of this Chapter shall be recognized as legal access to each lot of
the subdivision.

      5.   Existing traveled roads for which a court has determined that
a prescriptive right by users exists for public use shall be recognized
as legal access to each lot of the subdivision.

   C.   In determining whether to approve or disapprove an application
for a tentative map, the City shall apply only those ordinances,
policies and standards in effect at the date the proposal for the
subdivision was accepted as complete, as provided in Government Code
Section 66474.2.

Chapter 16.12
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS

Sections:

   16.12.010   Filing Criteria for Minor Subdivisions Plot Plan,
Tentative and Parcel Maps

   16.12.020   Minor Subdivision Plot Plan Content

   16.12.030   Parcel Map Content

   16.12.040   Minor Subdivision Procedures

   16.12.050   Parcel Map Procedures

   16.12.060   Conditions of Approval

16.12.010 Filing Criteria for Minor Subdivisions Plot Plan, Tentative
and Parcel Maps.

The provisions of this Section and the Subdivision Map Act shall govern
the necessity for minor subdivision plot plan, tentative and parcel
maps.

   A.   A tentative map may be required and a parcel map shall be
required for subdivisions where a final map is not otherwise required by
this Title, unless waived pursuant to this Title, and further provided
that a parcel map shall not be required for subdivisions created,
pursuant to Government Code 66428, by short-term leases (terminable by
either party on not more than thirty (30) days notice in writing) of a
portion of the operating right-of-way of a railroad corporation defined
as such by Public Utilities Code Section 230, or land conveyed to or
from a governmental agency, public entity, common carrier, public
utility, or for land conveyed to a subsidiary of a public utility for
conveyance to such public utility for rights-of-way, unless a showing is
made in individual cases, upon substantial evidence, that public policy
necessitates such a parcel map.

   B.   A parcel map shall not be required for the construction of a
condominium project or for the conversion of an existing structure to a
condominium on a single parcel shown on a final map or parcel map
recorded after January 1, 1960, provided, however, the planning officer
may require that a parcel map be filed for the purposes of obtaining
improvements, additional easements and dedications, or other
circumstances which warrant the filing of a new map.

   C.   The planning director except as otherwise provided may waive the
requirement for a parcel map, where two (2), three (3), or four (4)
parcels and any remainder parcel are involved, and the smallest parcel
created is two and one-half (2-1/2) gross acres or a two and one-half
(2-1/2) one-half (1/2) acre aliquot part of a section or greater;
provided said director has made a finding that the proposed division of
land complies with the requirements as to: (1) area, (2) improvement and
design, (3) flood water drainage control, (4) appropriate improved
public roads, (5) sanitary disposal facilities, (6) potable water supply
availability, (7) environmental protection, (8) other requirements of
Title, (9) the Subdivision Map Act, (10) other applicable ordinances of
the City, and (11) adequate survey data exists to properly identify the
property as determined by the City Engineer. A record of survey recorded
after January 1, 1983, shall not constitute adequate survey data to
permit a waiver of the requirement for a parcel map. The finding shall
be based upon evidence, information and recommendations of the
development review committee or individual development review committee
member acting within the departmental area of expertise.

   D.   The planning director shall not waive a parcel map as a
condition of approval of a vesting tentative parcel map.

   E.   Where the requirement for a parcel map is waived pursuant to
provisions of this Section, a tentative map may be required by the
planning director. The planning director may establish application
procedures for subdivisions which are not subject to the requirement for
tentative and final maps.

   F.   When a parcel map rather than a final map is required by this
Title, the subdivider has the option of submitting a tentative map.

   G.   The subdivider shall submit a tentative map in place of a minor
subdivision plot plan to obtain the rights conferred by the Subdivision
Map Act and this Title, for a vesting tentative map.

   H.   The requirements of Section 16.08.010.E., F. and G. shall apply
to the filing of parcel maps for the conversion of residential real
property to another use.

16.12.020 Minor Subdivision Plot Plan Content.

The content and form of the minor subdivision plot plan and applications
shall be governed by the provisions of this Section.

   A.   Standards and Preparation. The plot plan shall be prepared in
conformance with the Subdivision Map Act and any procedures established
by the City and/or the County Land Management Department as adopted by
the Board of Supervisors.

16.12.030 Parcel Map Content.

The content and form of parcel maps shall be governed by the provisions
of this Section.

   A.   Standards and Preparation. The parcel map shall be prepared by,
or under the direction of, a registered civil engineer licensed to
practice land surveying or licensed land surveyor; shall show the
location of streets and property lines bounding the property; and shall
conform to all of the following provisions and adopted City standards.

      1.   The parcel map shall be legibly drawn, printed or reproduced
by a process guaranteeing a permanent record in black on tracing cloth
or polyester-base film. Certificates, affidavits and acknowledgments
shall be legibly stamped or printed upon the map with opaque ink. If ink
is used on polyester-base film, the ink surface shall be coated with a
suitable substance to assure permanent legibility.

      2.   The size of each sheet shall be eighteen (18) inches by
twenty-six (26) inches. A marginal line shall be drawn completely around
each sheet, leaving an entirely blank margin of one (1) inch. The scale
of the map shall be large enough to show all details clearly and enough
sheets shall be used to accomplish this end. The particular number of
the sheet and the total number of sheets comprising the map shall be
stated on each of the sheets, and its relation to each adjoining sheet
shall be clearly shown.

      3.   Each lot shall be numbered and each street shall be named.

      4.   The exterior boundary of the land included within the
subdivision shall be indicated as an opaque ink line three (3) times as
wide as the widest line on the map excluding the border line. The map
shall show the location of each parcel and its relation to surrounding
surveys.

      5.   If the map includes a remainder parcel and the gross area of
the remainder parcel or similar named parcel is five (5) acres or less,
it shall be surveyed and mapped. If the remainder parcel or similar
named parcel is more than five (5) acres, that parcel shall show record
information and parcel size only.

      6.   Existing natural drainage courses and proposed drainage
easements, as necessary, shall be shown on the parcel map.

      7.   Additional notes which do not affect record title interests
shall not be shown on the parcel map. Where a composite development plan
has been required, a prominent note shall be placed below the surveyor’s
notes on the parcel map in one-quarter (1/4) inch high, bold block
letters, stating:

 

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  COMPOSITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN NOTE:
  A Composite Development Plan (C.D.P.) affecting this map is on file in the Building and Safety Department.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

      8.   In the case of a vesting tentative map for a parcel map, at
the time it is filed it shall have printed conspicuously on its face
“Vesting Tentative Parcel Map.”

   B.   Parcel Number. Prior to filing a parcel map, a licensed engineer
or surveyor shall obtain a number or numbers from the County Recorder.

   C.   Certificates on Parcel Maps. The certificates on parcel maps
shall be as required by the City Engineer’s standards and adopted by the
City Council.

      1.   Subject to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act, a
certificate, signed and acknowledged by the legal owner of record in the
real property subdivided, consenting to the preparation and recordation
of the parcel map is required.

      2.   Offers to dedicate interest in real property for specified
public purposes shall be made by a certificate on the parcel map, signed
and acknowledged by the legal owner of record in the real property being
subdivided, subject to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act. The
signature of either the holder of beneficial interests under trust deeds
or the trustee under such trust deeds, but not both, may be omitted. The
signature of either shall constitute a full and complete subordination
of the lien of the deed of trust to the map and any interest created by
the map.

         However, with respect to a division of land into four (4) or
fewer parcels, where dedications or offers of dedications are not
required, the certificate shall be signed and acknowledged by the legal
owner of record only.

      3.   In all cases where a parcel map is required, such map shall
be based upon a field survey made in conformity with the Land Surveyors
Act, except in the case of reversion to acreage.

      4.   The parcel map shall contain a certificate for execution by
the City Engineer, stating that the City Engineer approved the map and
accepted, subject to improvement, or rejected on behalf of the public,
any real property offered for dedication for public use in conformity
with the terms of the offer of dedication. The City Engineer is
empowered to accept such dedications on behalf of the City and County
Flood Control District.

16.12.040 Minor Subdivision Procedures.

The provisions for the review of minor subdivision, plot plans,
tentative and parcel maps shall be as required in Section 16.08.040 of
this Code, unless otherwise indicated in that Section.

16.12.050 Parcel Map Procedures.

This Section shall govern the procedures for the processing, approval,
conditional approval, and disapproval of an application to subdivide
land into four (4) lots or less with or without a remainder parcel, or
more when a parcel map has been required in lieu of a final map and
filing parcel maps.

   A.   Filing Advance Copy of Parcel Map. Where the filing of a parcel
map is required pursuant to this Title 16 after the approval or
conditional approval of the tentative parcel map or minor subdivision
plot plan application as provided by this Title 16, the subdivider may
cause the real property included within the map to be surveyed and a
parcel map thereof shall be prepared in accordance with the approved
tentative parcel map or minor subdivision plot plan application, and an
advance copy of said parcel map to be filed with the City Engineer.

      The advance copy of the parcel map shall be accompanied by the
following information:

      1.   Preliminary title report;

      2.   Fees in the amount specified in the City fee schedule;

      3.   Composite development plan;

      4.   Such additional information as required by the planning
agency or approved City standards.

   B.   Filing Official Copy of Parcel Map. The parcel map shall not be
officially filed until the engineer or surveyor has received
notification that all provisions of the tentative parcel map or minor
subdivision plot plan approval, the Subdivision Map Act, and City
standards have been complied with and an advance copy of the parcel map
has been approved by the City Engineer in accordance with the provisions
of this Chapter.

   C.   Appeal. Any decision of the planning agency can be appealed as
provided in Section 16.08.040.H.

   D.   Expiration of Approval and Time Extensions on Approved Minor
Subdivision Plot Plans and Vesting Tentative Parcel Maps. An approved or
conditionally approved minor subdivision plot plan and vesting tentative
parcel maps shall expire and may be extended within the time periods as
provided in Sections 16.08.040.E. and F.

   E.   The filing and recording of a parcel map shall be subject to the
requirements of Section 16.08.050.G. where applicable.

16.12.060 Conditions of Approval.

The conditions for subdivisions for which a tentative and final map are
not required shall be as follows:

   A.   Improvements Consistent with Established Pattern. Improvements
shall be limited to the dedication of flood control right-of-way
easements and the construction of reasonable off-site and on-site
improvements for the parcels being created. Requirements for the
construction of such off-site and on-site improvements shall be noticed
by certificate on the parcel map, on the instrument evidencing the
waiver of such parcel map, or by separate instrument and shall be
recorded on, concurrently with, or prior to the parcel map or instrument
of waiver of parcel map being filed for record. However, such
improvements shall be consistent with the pattern established in the
area, and further provided that in no case shall the required
improvements be greater than required for subdivisions requiring a final
map.

      Fulfillment of such construction requirements shall not be
required until such time as a permit or other grant of approval for the
development of the parcel is issued by the County or until such time as
the construction of such improvements is required pursuant to an
agreement between the subdivider and the County except that, in the
absence of such an agreement, the County may require fulfillment of such
construction requirements within a reasonable time following approval of
the parcel map and prior to the issuance of a permit or other grant of
approval for the development of a parcel upon a finding by the County
that fulfillment of the construction requirements is necessary for
reasons of:

      1.   The public health and safety; or,

      2.   The required construction is a necessary prerequisite to the
orderly development of the surrounding area.

   B.   Subdivision with Lot Sizes of Less Than Two and One-half (2-1/2)
Acres. Improvements, consistent with the pattern established in the
area, may be required as a condition of approval for a subdivision
containing any lot less than two and one-half (2-1/2) gross acres.
Improvements may include paving, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, water
supply, approved sewage disposal and drainage works, provided, however,
that in no case shall the required improvements be greater than required
for subdivisions with comparable lot sizes. If improvements have not
been installed at the time final approval is requested, a bond in an
amount equal to the estimated cost of the improvements plus ten percent
(10%) shall be posted with the County Land Management Department.

   C.   The conditions of approval regarding access that are referenced
in Section 16.08.060 shall apply to subdivisions for which a final map
is not required.

Chapter 16.16
VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS

Sections:

   16.16.010   Filing Criteria for Vesting Tentative Maps

   16.16.020   Content

   16.16.030   Procedures

   16.16.040   Development Rights

16.16.010 Filing Criteria for Vesting Tentative Maps.

   A.   Whenever a provision of the Subdivision Map Act, as implemented
and supplemented by this Title, requires the filing of a tentative map
or tentative parcel map for a residential development, a vesting
tentative map may instead be filed in accordance with the provisions
hereof.

   B.   If a subdivider does not seek the rights conferred by the
Vesting Tentative Map Statute, the filing of a vesting tentative map
shall not be a prerequisite to any approval for any proposed subdivision
permit for construction or work preparatory to construction.

   C.   Except as otherwise set forth, the provisions of this Title
shall apply to vesting tentative maps.

16.16.020 Content.

The content and form of vesting tentative maps shall be governed by the
provisions of this Section.

   A.   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed, it shall have
printed conspicuously on its face the words “Vesting Tentative Map.”

   B.   A vesting tentative map shall be filed in the same form and have
the same contents, accompanying data and reports as set forth in this
Title for a tentative map except as hereinafter provided.

16.16.030 Procedures.

The following provisions shall govern the filing, processing and review
of vesting tentative maps.

   A.   A vesting tentative map shall be processed and reviewed in the
same manner as set forth in this Title 16 for a tentative map, except as
hereinafter provided.

      1.   Development Review. Prior to filing a vesting tentative map,
the subdivider shall have a preapplication conference with the
development review committee to determine if any additional information
should be filed with the vesting tentative map application. The
applicant shall submit to the development review committee prior to the
preapplication conference all information that is required of a
tentative map application. This information will be reviewed by the
committee and additional information may be required by the committee to
be submitted with the vesting tentative map application.

         The minutes of the preapplication conference shall dictate the
filing requirements for the vesting tentative map, and shall accompany
the filing of the map. The information required by the development
review committee for formal submission of the proposed project may
include, but is not limited to the following:

         a.   Drainage plan for control of both on-site and off-site
storm runoff, water courses, channels, existing culverts and drainpipes
including existing and proposed facilities for control of storm waters,
data as to the amount of runoff and the approximate grade and dimension
of proposed facilities for control of storm waters;

         b.   Building envelopes;

         c.   Proposed land use and types of structures;

         d.   Detailed circulation information (existing and proposed),
including proposed street improvement plans. This information may
include area-wide traffic data sufficient for the City to determine
future needs;

         e.   Detailed grading plans;

         f.   Geological studies;

         g.   Water and sewer improvement plans.

            Any information required by the development review committee
shall be clearly detailed and listed with anticipated review periods so
it can be acted on within reasonable time. The department office which
requires any additional information shall approve the acceptability of
this information from the applicant prior to the filing of the vesting
tentative map.

            The development review committee may require the filing and
concurrent review of other related development applications where it is
necessary for the review and implementation of the vesting tentative
map.

      2.   An approving action on a vesting tentative map shall not
occur prior to the effective date of approval of the associated
discretionary permit or action.

      3.   Upon filing a vesting tentative map, the subdivider shall pay
the fees required as established in the City’s fee resolution for the
filing and processing of a vesting tentative map.

      4.   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative
map shall expire at the end of the same time period, and shall be
subject to the same extensions, established by this Title 16 for the
expiration of the approval or conditional approval of a tentative map.

      5.   Any time prior to the expiration of a vesting tentative map,
the subdivider or assignee may apply for an amendment to the vesting
tentative map. No application for amendment shall be required where the
reviewing authority finds that such amendment is a minor modification
that is in substantial compliance with the original approval and no new
conditions of approval are required.

      6.   For a subdivision whose intended development is inconsistent
with the zoning ordinance or General Plan in existence at that time,
that inconsistency shall be noted on the map. The planning agency may
deny such a vesting tentative map or approve it conditioned on the
subdivider, or his or her designee, obtaining the necessary change in
the zoning ordinance or General Plan to eliminate the inconsistency. If
the change in the pertinent ordinance is obtained, the approved or
conditionally approved vesting tentative map shall confer the right to
proceed with the development as approved.

      7.   Fees for development permits (e.g., building and grading
permits) filed per an approved vesting tentative map or a recorded
vesting final/parcel map shall be the fees in effect at the time of
issuance of such permit.

16.16.040 Development Rights.

   A.   When the planning agency approves or conditionally approves a
vesting tentative map, that approval shall confer a vested right to
proceed with the development in substantial compliance with the
ordinances, policies and standards in effect at the date the application
for the subdivision has been determined to be complete and pursuant to
Government Code Section 66474.2. If Section 66474.2 is repealed, that
approval shall confer a vested right to proceed with development in
substantial compliance with the ordinances, policies and standards in
effect at the time the vesting tentative map is approved or
conditionally approved.

   B.   Notwithstanding Subsection A. of this Section, the planning
agency may condition or deny a permit, approval, extension, entitlement
or require an amendment to the map if it determines any of the
following:

      1.   A failure to do so would place the residents of the
subdivision or the immediate community, or both, in a condition
dangerous to their health or safety, or both;

      2.   The condition or denial is required in order to comply with
state or federal law.

   C.   The planning agency may alter any condition of a vesting
tentative map through an amendment pursuant to Sections 16.04.040.E. and
F. in order to protect against conditions dangerous to public health and
safety or to comply with state or federal law.

   D.   The rights conferred by this Section shall expire if a final or
parcel map is not recorded prior to the expiration of the vesting
tentative map as provided in Section 16.16.030.A.4. If the final or
parcel map is recorded, these rights shall last for the following
periods of time:

      1.   An Initial Time Period of One (1) Year. Where several final
maps are recorded on various phases of a project covered by a single
vesting tentative map, this initial time period shall begin for each
phase when the final map for that phase is recorded.

      2.   The initial time period set forth in Section 16.16.040.D.1.
shall be automatically extended by any time used for processing a
complete application for a grading permit or for design or architectural
review, if such processing exceeds thirty (30) days from the date a
complete application is filed.

      3.   A subdivider may apply for a one-year extension at any time
before the initial time period set forth in Section 16.16.040.D.1.
expires. If the extension is denied, the subdivider may appeal that
denial to the City Council within fifteen (15) days.

      4.   If the subdivider submits a complete application for a
building permit during the periods of time specified in this Section,
the rights referred to herein shall continue until the expiration of
that permit, or any extension of that permit.

Chapter 16.20
COMPOSITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN

Sections:

   16.20.010   Filing Criteria for Composite Development Plans

   16.20.020   Content

   16.20.030   Perimeter Walls

   16.20.040   Review Process

   16.20.050   Amendment to Composite Development Plan

16.20.010 Filing Criteria for Composite Development Plans.

   A.   The planning agency may require the filing of a composite
development plan at the time a final or parcel map is accepted for
recordation. These maps will reflect the information required by the
planning agency and shall be filed with the building and safety
department concurrent with the recordation of the final or parcel map.

   B.   Wherever a composite development plan is required, these plans
shall be submitted prior to recordation of the final or parcel map.

16.20.020 Content.

The content and form of composite development plans shall be governed by
the provisions of this Section and composite development plan standards
established by the City Engineer and adopted by the City Council.

   A.   Standards and Preparation. A reproduction shall be made on linen
or mylar of the map sheets of the final or parcel map which shall
conform to the following provisions and adopted City standards.

   B.   In the top margin of all the map sheets, there shall be
prominently labeled “Composite Development Plan.” Advance copies shall
be submitted for approval by the City Engineer and building official
prior to submittal of the linen or mylar of the final or parcel map.

   C.   Notes on Composite Development Plans.

      1.   The plan shall contain a section titled “Composite
Development Plan Notes.” The City may list here any conditions or
mitigating measures stipulated for the development of the subject
property. Any explanatory notes related to criteria delineated on the
map shall also be listed within this section. In addition any related
reports regarding development criteria shall be listed, including the
following information:

         a.   Title and date of the report;

         b.   Name and credentials of person or firm preparing report;

         c.   The location where the reports are on file.

      2.   The plan may delineate and note applicable criteria to the
development of the subject property. These criteria are limited to:

         a.   Building Criteria (e.g., Building Setback Lines). Any yard
setback lines that are delineated on composite development plans shall
be the street and yard setback distances required on the property within
the composite development plan;

         b.   Geological and seismic criteria;

         c.   Grading criteria;

         d.   Flood control criteria (e.g., setbacks);

         e.   Environmental criteria;

         f.   Incorporation of any special map requirements;

         g.   All easements of record shall be delineated on the plan.
Where the only information to be detailed by the composite development
plan are the minimum yard setbacks established by either a community
plan or zone district, then a composite development plan will not be
required.

      3.   The following statement shall be prominently displayed on
each map sheet:

 

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  COMPOSITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
  NOTES ON THIS PLAN ARE FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES, TO INDICATE CONDITIONS AND CRITERIA THAT EXIST ON THIS PROPERTY THAT WERE KNOWN AND IDENTIFIED AS OF THE DATE THIS PLAN WAS FILED. THIS INFORMATION IS DERIVED FROM PUBLIC RECORDS OR REPORTS AND IS NOT INTENDED TO AFFECT RECORD TITLE INTEREST.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

16.20.030 Perimeter Walls.

The plan shall delineate and note all perimeter walls required for all
subdivisions in accordance with the following:

   A.   Perimeter walls shall be required for all tentative maps in
accordance with the following standards:

      1.   The wall shall be six (6) feet in height and be constructed
of noncombustible materials such as concrete block, brick or woodcrete.

      2.   Walls shall be required to be constructed along the perimeter
where the project boundary is adjacent to undeveloped wildland areas. A
wall will not be required where the project boundary is a local street
used for individual residential driveway access.

      3.   Walls may be designed with openings to facilitate pedestrian
access and shall be reduced in height to avoid conflicts with required
clear sight triangles or standard setback requirements.

      4.   Perimeter walls shall utilize materials with colors that
generally blend with the surrounding natural area and the exterior sides
treated with a coating to facilitate the removal of graffiti.

      5.   This requirement shall not apply to parcel maps or tentative
parcel maps consisting of four (4) lots or less.

      6.   All required walls shall be constructed prior to occupancy of
the first unit within the applicable phase of the tentative map.

16.20.040 Review Process.

This Subsection shall govern the procedures for the processing, approval
or disapproval of a composite development plan.

   A.   Filing Advance Copy. At least three (3) weeks prior to the
recordation of the final or parcel map, the composite development plan
shall be submitted for coordination of review to the City Engineer.

   B.   Filing Official Copy of Composite Development Plan. Concurrent
with the filing for recordation of the final or parcel map, the
composite development plan, as approved by the planning department and
City Engineer in accordance with the provisions of this Title, shall be
filed with the Building and Safety Department.

16.20.050 Amendment to Composite Development Plan.

   A.   Should any correction and amendment to a final or parcel map be
made that affects the composite development plan as authorized by
Sections 16.04.040.E. and F., then the applicant shall file with the
building and safety department a corrected composite development plan
that is approved by the City Engineer and Planning Department. The
building official is authorized to approve amended maps when they do not
adversely impact the conditions of other departments and the amendment
is in substantial compliance with the conditions of approval of the
tentative or parcel map.

   B.   Any request to modify or deviate from the standards that are
shown on a composite development plan shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Section 16.12.210, except as otherwise provided by
this Section.

Chapter 16.24
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS

Sections:

   16.24.010   Filing Criteria

   16.24.020   Procedures

   16.24.030   Conditions of Approval

16.24.010 Filing Criteria.

   A.   “Lot Line Adjustment” means the adjustment of a lot line between
two (2) or more adjacent parcels, where the land taken from one (1)
parcel is added to an adjacent parcel, and where no additional parcels
are thereby created or the number of parcels reduced.

   B.   Filing criteria shall be as established by City policy.

16.24.020 Procedures.

   A.   The planning director or designee may approve lot line
adjustments as herein provided. A current preliminary title report shall
be required to accompany a lot line adjustment request. This report is
required in order to ensure that the properties or portions thereof are
not encumbered with liens, delinquent taxes, trust deeds and/or utility
easements on the property which would conflict with the requested lot
line adjustment. If the boundaries described within a recorded
encumbering document do conflict with the boundaries as described in the
requested lot line adjustment, the planning director shall require that
such a conflict be eliminated. In addition, if any of the lots are
improved, the planning director shall refer the proposed lot line
adjustment to the City Engineer for review of possible encroachments.

   B.   The planning officer or designee shall make the following
findings prior to approval of a lot line adjustment:

      1.   The proposed lot line adjustment is consistent with the
General Plan, Development Code, and any applicable community and
specific plans.

      2.   The proposed lot line adjustment will not adversely affect
public health and safety.

16.24.030 Conditions of Approval.

   A.   No tentative map, parcel map or final map shall be required as a
condition to the approval of a lot line adjustment.

   B.   A record of survey may be required to facilitate the preparation
of the legal description to ensure the accuracy of the description or
the elimination of the encroachments.

   C.   A recorded certificate of compliance shall be required of all
lot line adjustments. Any certificate of compliance with parcels that
are tax delinquent shall not record. The lot line adjustments will be
voided if the following are not completed within ninety (90) days after
the recordation of the certificate of compliance.

      1.   Grant deeds which describe the new boundaries of the parcels
shall be recorded.

      2.   Appropriate trust deeds or partial reconveyance documents
which describe the new boundaries shall be recorded.

Chapter 16.28
LOT MERGERS

Sections:

   16.28.010   Mandatory Merger of Substandard Lots

   16.28.020   Voluntary Merger of Contiguous Lots

   16.28.030   Findings

16.28.010 Mandatory Merger of Substandard Lots.

   A.   A mandatory merger of substandard lots may be initiated by the
City. A lot may be merged with a contiguous lot held by the same owner
if any one (1) of the contiguous lots or units held by the same owner
does not conform to standards for minimum lot size or dimension
specified by the applicable zone/land use district if all of the
following requirements are satisfied:

      1.   At least one of the affected lots is not developed with any
structure for which a building permit was issued or for which a building
permit was not required at the time of construction, or is developed
only with an accessory structure or accessory structures, or is
developed with a single structure, other than an accessory structure,
that is also partially sited on a contiguous lot involved in the
proposed merger; and

      2.   At least one (1) of the affected lots must have one (1) or
more of the following conditions:

         a.   The lot comprises less than five thousand (5,000) square
feet in area at the time of the determination of merger;

         b.   The lot was not created in compliance with applicable laws
and ordinances in effect at the time of its creation;

         c.   The lot does not meet current standards for sewage
disposal and/or domestic water supply;

         d.   The lot does not meet slope stability and/or density
standards, as specified by this Code, community plan or the General
Plan;

         e.   The lot has no legal access which is adequate for
vehicular and emergency equipment access and maneuverability;

         f.   The development of the lot would create health or safety
hazards:

         g.   The lot is inconsistent with the applicable General Plan
and any applicable community plan or specific plan, other than minimum
lot size or density standards.

            For purposes of determining whether contiguous lots are held
by the same owner, the ownership of record shall be determined as of the
date that notice of intention to determine status is recorded. Ownership
of record shall be determined by the verification of the property
ownership as recorded with the County Recorder in the official County
records.

   B.   A lot merger becomes effective when the City causes to be filed
for record with the County Recorder a notice of merger specifying the
names of the record owners and a description of the real property to be
merged. This notice shall be transmitted to the County Recorder with any
certificates for taxes as referenced in Section 16.04.040.D.1.

   C.   When a notice of merger has been recorded, the resultant parcel
so merged shall be developed as a single unit of land.

   D.   When the City initiates a merger of substandard lots, noticing
shall be done in compliance with the following provisions:

      1.   Unless otherwise specified in Section 16.28.020, for all lots
proposed to be merged, the City shall cause to be mailed by certified
mail to the current record owner of the property a notice of intention
to determine status, notifying the owner that the affected lots may be
merged pursuant to provisions and standards specified by this Section,
and advising the owner of the opportunity to request a determination of
status hearing and to present evidence at the hearing that the property
does not meet the criteria for merger. This hearing shall be conducted
in accordance with the staff review without notice procedures by the
office of planning, as provided in Chapter 16.12. The notice of
intention to determine status shall be filed for record with the
Recorder of the County of San Bernardino on the date that notice is
mailed to the property owner.

   E.   At any time within thirty (30) days after recording of the
notice of intention to determine status pursuant to Subsection D.1. of
this Section, the owner of the affected property may file with the
planning department a request for a determination of status hearing.

   F.   Upon receiving a request for a determination of status hearing
from the owner of the affected property pursuant to Subsection E. of
this Section, the planning director shall fix a time, date and place to
conduct a hearing and shall notify the property owner of the time, date
and place of the hearing by certified mail. The hearing shall be
conducted not more than sixty (60) days following the City’s receipt of
the property owner’s request for a hearing, but may be postponed or
continued with the mutual consent of the City and the property owner.

   G.   At a determination of status hearing, the property owner shall
be given the opportunity to present any evidence that the affected
property does not meet the standards for merger specified in this
Section and Section 16.28.020. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
planning department shall make a determination that the affected lots
are to be merged or are not to be merged and shall so notify the owner
of this determination. A determination of merger shall be recorded
within thirty (30) days after conclusion of the hearing.

   H.   If within the thirty (30) day period specified in Subsection E.
of this Section, the owner does not file a request for hearing in
accordance with Subsection F of this Section, the planning department
may, at anytime thereafter, make a determination that the affected lots
are to be merged or are not to be merged. A notice of merger shall be
recorded as provided in Subsection B. of this Section, no later than
ninety (90) days following the mailing of notice required by Subsection
E. of this Section.

      If, in accordance with Subsection G. or H. of this Section, the
planning department determines that the subject property shall not be
merged, it shall cause to be recorded in the manner specified in
Subsection B. of this Section, a release of the notice of intention to
determine status, recorded pursuant to Subsection D.1. of this Section
and shall mail a clearance letter to the current owner of record.

   I.   Any decisions made by the planning director in accordance with
this Section may be appealed prior to recordation of the notice of
merger in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 16.12.

16.28.020 Voluntary Merger of Contiguous Lots.

   A.   Description and Purpose. It is the purpose of this Section to
allow property owners to request a voluntary merger of contiguous lots
that are under the same ownership.

   B.   Process. The property owner shall file an application for a lot
merger. The reviewing authority shall be the planning director and
review of the application shall be subject to the provisions for staff
review without notice pursuant to Section 16.12.005(3) of the
Development Code and in accordance with the provisions of Subsection C.
of this Section. The merger of the subject lots becomes effective when
the planning director causes a notice of merger specifying the names of
the record owners and a description of the real property to be filed for
record with the County Recorder.

   C.   Requirements. A voluntary merger of lots maybe requested by an
applicant. A lot may be merged with one (1) or more contiguous lots held
by the same owner if any one (1) of the contiguous lots held by the same
owner does not conform to standards for minimum lot size or dimension
specified by the applicable zone/land use district or if at least one
(1) such lot meets one (1) or more of the requirements specified in
Section 16.30.010.A.2.

16.28.030 Findings.

The planning agency shall find and justify the following to be true,
prior to recording any notice of merger:

   A.   The lots to be merged at the time of merger are under common
ownership;

   B.   The lots as merged will be consistent with or be more closely
compatible with the applicable zone/land use district regulations and
any other planning policies relating to the subject property and lot
configuration;

   C.   The lot as merged will not be deprived of legal access as a
result of the merger and access to the adjoining lots will not be
restricted by the merger;

   D.   All current and any delinquent taxes have been paid on all
affected lots.

Chapter 16.32
REVERSION TO ACREAGE

Sections:

   16.32.010   Filing Criteria

   16.32.020   Reversion to Acreage by Final Map or Parcel Map

   16.32.030   Data for Reversion to Acreage by Final Map or Parcel Map

   16.32.040   Fee

   16.32.050   Proceedings

   16.32.060   Conditions for Reversion to Acreage by Final Map

   16.32.070   Conditions for Reversion to Acreage by Parcel Map

   16.32.080   Return of Deposits and Release of Securities

   16.32.090   Delivery of Final Map or Parcel Map

   16.32.100   Effect of Filing Revision Map with the County Recorder

16.32.010 Filing Criteria.

Requirement for Reversion to Acreage. Reversions to acreage may be
required as a condition of approval for a land use application or
allowed upon review and approval of a subdividers request pursuant to
the provisions of this Chapter.

16.32.020 Reversion to Acreage by Final Map or Parcel Map.

Subdivided real property may be reverted to acreage by a final map or
parcel map pursuant to the provisions of this Section.

   A.   Initiation of Proceedings.

      1.   Proceedings shall be initiated by petition by the owner of
the property. The petition shall be on a form prescribed by the planning
department and shall be accompanied by:

         a.   Evidence of ownership;

         b.   Evidence of nonuse or lack of necessity of any streets or
easements to be vacated or abandoned;

         c.   Submittal of a tentative map or other application
procedure which may be established by the planning director which
delineates any streets or easements which are to be left in effect,
provided, however, that the planning director may require a tentative
tract map prepared to the standard prescribed in this Chapter;

         d.   Such other information as required by the planning
department.

      2.   The City Council, at the request of any person or on its own
motion, may by resolution initiate proceedings to revert property to
acreage. The City Council shall direct the Planning Department to obtain
the necessary information to initiate and conduct the proceedings.

   B.   Previously subdivided land consisting of four (4) or less
contiguous parcels under the same ownership may be reverted to acreage
by parcel map; previously subdivided land consisting of five (5) or more
parcels under the same ownership shall be reverted to acreage by final
map.

16.32.030 Data for Reversion to Acreage by Final Map or Parcel Map.

Petitioners shall file the following:

   A.   Evidence of title to the real property; and

   B.   Evidence of the consent of all of the owners of interest(s) in
the property; or

   C.   Evidence that none of the improvements required to be made have
been made within two (2) years from the date the final map or parcel map
was filed for record, or within the time allowed by agreement for
completion of the improvements, whichever is later; or

   D.   Evidence that no lots shown on the final or parcel map have been
sold within five (5) years from the date such final or parcel map was
filed for record;

   E.   A minor subdivision plot plan or tentative map in the form
prescribed by this Title;

   F.   A parcel map or a final map in the form prescribed by this
Title. The parcel map or final map shall delineate dedications which
will not be vacated and dedications required as a condition to
reversion.

16.32.040 Fee.

The petition shall be accompanied by a fee as required by the City’s fee
schedule.

16.32.050 Proceedings.

   A.   The Planning Commission shall hold a noticed public hearing on
all petitions for, and Council initiations of, reversions to acreage, as
is required for any other Planning Commission action in which the
reviewing authority hears public testimony for and against the land use
proposal, reviews evidence and renders its decision in connection with a
land use approval.

   B.   In the case of a reversion to acreage by parcel map, the
Planning Commission may approve the reversion to acreage only if it
finds and records in writing the findings required by this Section.

   C.   For a reversion to acreage by final map, the Planning Commission
shall render its decision in the form of a written recommendation to the
City Council. Such recommendation shall include the reasons for the
recommendation and shall be transmitted to the City Council in such form
and manner as may be specified by the City Council. Upon receipt of the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City Council shall hold a
public hearing. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
given in the same time and manner provided for the giving of notice of
the hearing by the Planning Commission. The City Council may approve a
reversion to acreage only if it finds and records in writing the
findings required by this Section.

   D.   Findings. Prior to approval, the reviewing authority shall find
and justify the following to be true:

      1.   Dedications or offers of dedication to be vacated or
abandoned by the reversion to acreage are unnecessary for present or
prospective public purposes; and

      2.   Either:

         a.   All owners of an interest in the real property within the
subdivision have consented to reversion;

         b.   None of the improvements required to be made have been
made within two (2) years from the date the final or parcel map was
filed for record, or within the time allowed by agreement for the
completion of the improvements, whichever is later; or

         c.   No lots shown on the final or parcel map have been sold
within five (5) years from the date such map was filed for record.

16.32.060 Conditions for Reversion to Acreage by Final Map.

The City Council may require as conditions for the reversion the
following:

   A.   The owners dedicate or offer to dedicate streets or easements;

   B.   The retention of all or a portion of previously paid subdivision
fees, deposits or improvement security, if the same are necessary to
accomplish any of the provisions of this Title;

   C.   The retention of drainage easements for drainage and flood
control.

16.32.070 Conditions for Reversion to Acreage by Parcel Map.

After approval of the petition, a parcel map shall be prepared in
accordance with this Title; provided, however, that said parcel map may
be compiled from recorded data if all the following conditions exist:

   A.   New division lines are not created;

   B.   The complete parcel boundary has been monumented and shown on a
recorded subdivision map or parcel map;

   C.   When at least one (1) of these boundary lines can be established
from an existing monumented line.

      The parcel map shall contain those certificates as required by
Section 16.32.030.C.

16.32.080 Return of Deposits and Release of Securities.

Except as provided in this Chapter, upon filing of the final map for
reversion to acreage with the County Recorder, deposits shall be
returned to the subdivider; and all improvement securities shall be
released by the City Council.

16.32.090 Delivery of Final Map or Parcel Map.

After the hearing before the City Council and approval of the reversion,
the final map or parcel map shall be delivered to the County Recorder.

16.32.100 Effect of Filing Reversion Map with the County Recorder.

Reversion shall be effective upon the parcel map or final map being
filed for record by the County Recorder. Upon filing, all dedications
and offers of dedication not shown on the parcel map or final map for
reversion shall be of no further force or effect.

Chapter 16.36
CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE

Sections:

   16.36.010   Filing Criteria

   16.36.020   Content and Form

   16.36.030   Procedures

   16.36.040   Conditions of Approval

16.36.010 Filing Criteria.

   A.   A recorded certificate of compliance may be requested by any
person owning real property to have the planning director determine
whether such property complies with the provisions of this Code.

   B.   A certificate of compliance may be required by the planning
department prior to recordation of a merger.

   C.   A recorded certificate of compliance shall be required of all
lot line adjustments pursuant to Section 16.24.030.

   D.   When an agreement is reached and a deed is recorded regarding
the ambiguities of the location of a lot line(s), a certificate of
compliance shall be recorded.

   E.   When determined by the City Engineer, certificates of compliance
may be required for the remainder parcels on final/parcel maps.

16.36.020 Content and Form.

The content and form of an application for a certificate of compliance
shall be as required by City policy.

16.36.030 Procedures.

Upon making a determination that real property complies with this Title
16, the planning director shall cause a certificate of compliance to be
filed for record with the County Recorder. The certificate of compliance
shall identify the real property and shall state the division thereof
complies with applicable provisions of this Title 16 and the Subdivision
Map Act.

16.36.040 Conditions of Approval.

   A.   When granting a certificate of compliance for the purpose of
determining whether real property is in compliance with this Code.

      1.   The requirements of a condition of the granting of a
certificate of compliance shall be limited to dedications of flood
control and road or street right-of-way easement for lots created before
March 4, 1972.

      2.   When a certificate of compliance is requested for a parcel of
land created prior to March 4, 1972, the following shall apply:

         a.   If the parcel is less than five (5) acres in size, access,
improvement and map requirements consistent with land division
requirements at the time the parcel was created shall be required.

         b.   If the parcel is five (5) acres or greater in size, no
parcel or record of survey map shall be required, unless the planning
director finds that, due to topographical, geologic or drainage
concerns, delineation of such areas is necessary to assure adequate
building sites. Access shall be provided pursuant to Subsection A.2. of
this Section.

         c.   Access requirements across lands not in the ownership of
the applicant may be deferred until development is requested on the
property. A statement of disclosure relating to such lack of access
shall be placed on the certificate of compliance advising of this
requirement to future buyers of the parcel.

      3.   If the planning director determines that such real property
does not comply with the provisions of this Title 16, the planning
director shall impose all the access requirements of this Title 16
before issuing a certificate of compliance. The planning director may,
as a condition to granting a certificate of compliance, impose those
additional improvement requirements and tentative or parcel map
requirements provided in this Title. Such conditions may be fulfilled
and implemented by the property owner who has applied for a certificate
of compliance pursuant to this Section or by a grantee of such property
owner. If such conditions are not fulfilled or implemented by the
applicant, property owner or the grantee, the certificate of compliance
shall have no force or effect upon any subsequent transfer of the
property; and any subsequent transferee or assignee shall make a new
application for a certificate of compliance pursuant to this Chapter,
and the planning director may impose such conditions as would have been
applicable at the time such assignee or transferee acquired the
property.

   B.   All certificates of compliance shall be reviewed and approved by
the City Engineer prior to recordation. A record of survey may be
required by the City Engineer in order to facilitate the preparation of
new legal descriptions or to ensure the elimination of any encroachment.

   C.   A certificate of compliance shall be issued for any real
property which has been approved for development pursuant to Section
16.04.090.D.

   D.   A recorded final subdivision map, or parcel map, or recorded lot
merger shall constitute a certificate of compliance with respect to the
parcels of real property described therein.

   E.   An official map prepared pursuant to subdivision (b) of
Government Code Section 66499.52 and Chapter 16.40 of this Code, shall
constitute a certificate of compliance or a conditional certificate of
compliance with respect to the parcels of real property described
therein and may be filed for record, whether or not the parcels are
contiguous, so long as the parcels are within the same section or, with
the approval of the City Engineer, within contiguous sections of land.

Chapter 16.40
OFFICIAL MAPS

Sections:

   16.40.010   Filing Criteria

   16.40.020   Procedure

   16.40.030   Recording Requirements

16.40.010 Filing Criteria.

   A.   Whenever any subdivision of land is platted or divided into lots
or blocks, and whenever any addition to any subdivision is laid out into
lots or blocks for the purpose of sale or transfer, the City Engineer,
under the direction and with the approval of the City Council, may make
an official map of the subdivision, giving to each block on the map a
number, and to each lot or subdivision in the block a separate number or
letter, and giving names to such streets, avenues, lanes, courts,
commons or parks as may be delineated on the official map.

   B.   Any surveyor or engineer under the review of the City Engineer
may prepare an official map to be filed for record as a certificate of
compliance, pursuant to subdivisions (d) and (e) of the Government Code
Section 66499.35 and Section 16.36.040.E. of this Code. The map shall be
prepared in accordance with the map format specifications of
subdivisions A to F, inclusive, of Section 66434 of the Subdivision Map
Act and Section 16.08.030 of this Code except where noted otherwise in
this Chapter.

16.40.020 Procedure.

   A.   A tentative map application shall be filed with the City.
Filing, map form and content, and procedure requirements for review and
approval of official maps shall be as required by City Engineer
standards as adopted by the City Council. This tentative map may be
approved if it is consistent with the General Plan and zoning or land
use district subject to the following requirements:

      1.   Submit proof of approved access;

      2.   Engineer or surveyor shall prepare and file an official map
under the review of the City Engineer. The map shall contain the
following:

         a.   Private road easements or offers of dedication to each lot
by separate instrument or a note placed on the map that dedication will
be required prior to building permits,

         b.   Locate and delineate the natural drainage courses,

         c.   Ground height for building pads to preclude flooding,

         d.   Surveyed, mapped and monumented per City Engineer’s
standards,

         e.   Legal description for each lot,

         f.   City Council certificate,

         g.   Engineer or surveyor’s certificate,

         h.   City Engineer’s certificate,

         i.   City Engineer’s official map checking deposit based upon
current final map fee schedule,

         j.   Improvements and improvement plans on future roads may be
deferred if not needed at this time or access to developed properties,

         k.   Any additional information as required by City Engineer
standards.

   B.   Each and every map made and adopted under this Title shall be
presented to the City Council by the City Engineer and be certified
under the hands of a majority of the members of the City Council, the
presiding officer, secretary and official seal of the City Council. The
certificate shall set forth in full the resolution adopting the map,
with the date of adoption.

   C.   Fees established for processing of official maps shall be as
required in the City’s fee schedule.

16.40.030 Recording Requirements.

   A.   The certified map shall be forthwith filed in the office of the
County Recorder. The Recorder shall immediately securely fasten and bind
each map so filed in one of a series of firmly bound books to be
provided, together with the proper indexes thereof, and appropriately
marked for the reception of maps provided for in this Title. Official
maps shall be filed and processed in accordance with provisions for
final maps in Chapter 16.04 of this Code, unless otherwise indicated in
City Engineer’s standards for official maps.

   B.   The map shall become an official map for the purposes of this
Title when certified, filed and bound, but not before.

   C.   Whenever the City Council adopts an official map, it shall be
lawful and sufficient to describe the lots or blocks in any deeds,
conveyances, contracts or obligations affecting any of the lots or
blocks as designated on the official map.

Chapter 16.44
RESIDENT INITIATED MOBILE HOME PARK CONVERSIONS

Sections:

   16.44.010   Intent

   16.44.020   Exclusions

   16.44.030   Waiver of Tentative and Final Map Requirements

   16.44.040   Fees

16.44.010 Intent.

   A.   The intent of this Chapter is to facilitate resident purchase of
mobile home parks. This Chapter allows the waiver of certain subdivision
requirements and expedites local government processing for mobile home
park conversions to condominiums or stock cooperatives. Such conversions
will preserve an important source of affordable housing.

   B.   For the purposes of this Chapter, an application for subdivision
shall be considered “resident initiated” when signed by a resident
organization formed by the tenants of the subject mobile home park for
the purpose of purchasing the mobile home park. The proposed conversion
shall be supported by a minimum of two-thirds (2/3) of the current
residents of the park. The resident organization shall have a legally
binding contract, which, if the conditions of the contract are met,
would result in the acquisition of an interest in the mobile home park.
A preapplication conference may be requested by the applicant(s) prior
to formation of the resident organization or prior to entering into a
legally binding contract provided the planning agency determines in
writing that it is reasonable to believe that such contract may be
entered into within a year.

16.44.020 Exclusions.

The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the following:

   A.   The purchase of mobile home park by a non-profit corporation
which is subject to the provisions of California Business and
Professions Code Section 11010.8.

   B.   Special occupancy parks (e.g., recreation vehicle parks) as
defined in Section 2008 of the Mobile Home Parks Act, Title 25 of the
State Administrative Code.

   C.   Mobile Home Planned Unit Developments. Such developments shall
be governed by the following: Sections 16.32.010 through 16.32.050 and
Chapter 16.12 of this Code, and any land development guidelines for
planned developments adopted by the City.

16.44.030 Waiver of Tentative and Final Map Requirements.

Notwithstanding other provisions of this Title, the requirement for the
filing of a tentative subdivision map and the preparation, filing and
recordation of a final map, for a mobile home park conversion to a
condominium or stock cooperative on a single parcel, may be waived by
the planning agency, provided, that the following procedures are
followed by a resident organization desiring to convert its park and the
necessary findings are made by the planning agency.

   A.   Preapplication Conference. Prior to filing an application for
mobile home park conversion, the resident association shall have a
preapplication conference with the development review committee. This
conference shall be scheduled in accordance with the policy established
by the City for the housing incentive program. The purpose of this
conference is to determine that the proposal qualifies under the
provisions of this Chapter. The following information shall be submitted
with the application for this conference:

      1.   Previously Approved Plot Plan for the Mobile Home Park. If
none exists, a plot plan shall be filed in accordance with the
requirements established by the City reviewing authority and available
at the information counter of City Hall.

      2.   A supplemental report to include the following information:

         a.   Name of consultant(s), if any;

         b.   Disclosure of all known fees and costs for the conversion
process.

         c.   Documentation demonstrating that two-thirds (2/3) of the
residents of the mobile home park support the proposed conversion;

         d.   Declarations from those residents supporting the
conversion that their principal place of residence is within the subject
mobile home park;

         e.   The location of the park and results of a field inspection
done by the applicant(s) or consultant regarding the status of, the
compliance of the park with health and safety standards in effect at the
time the park was created. Any on-site dedications or public
improvements to be required, if any, shall be identified by the
committee;

         f.   Proposed tentative schedules to expedite meeting and
coordinating any requirements of the City planning agency and the
department of real estate, including but not limited to the public
report. Such schedule shall include an outline of the permits and
noticing required to allow this conversion and the estimated time at
which such permits are obtained;

         g.   Evidence showing that the sixty (60) day notice of intent
to file the conversion application (as required by Section 66427.1(a) of
the Subdivision Map Act) has been met;

         h.   Initial report on the impact of the conversion on the
residents of the mobile home park. This report is needed to determine
whether an impact report as required in Section 66427.4 of the
Subdivision Map Act is needed. The report shall specify whether any
residents of the park are to be involuntarily displaced and any proposed
measures to mitigate such displacement. A resident who is offered an
opportunity to remain in the park after the conversion through
continuation of the tenancy at generally the same terms as existed prior
to proposed conversion, shall not be considered involuntarily displaced.
At the preapplication conference, the development review committee shall
indicate whether an impact report needs to be filed with the formal
application for the conversion. If it is required, the development
review committee shall identify in detail any additional items to be
required as mitigation measures to assist any displaced residents. No
current resident shall be involuntarily displaced without proper notice,
assistance or compensation, to be worked out on a case-by-case basis.
Such noticing, assistance or compensation may include, but is not
limited to, the following:

            (1)   The project shall comply with the Mobile Home
Residency Law, Sections 798 et seq., of the Civil Code,

            (2)   The project applicant(s) may be required to provide
relocation assistance pursuant to federal, state or local laws.

   B.   Development Review. The development review committee shall field
check the park prior to the scheduled meeting. The development review
committee shall establish if the proposed mobile home park conversion
meets the intent and is capable of meeting the provisions of this
Chapter. The planning director shall attempt to inform the applicant(s)
at the earliest opportunity if a public hearing is to be required. If
the proposed mobile home park conversion is acceptable, the development
review committee shall identify the information the applicant needs to
file to proceed with the proposal. Such information shall include the
following:

      1.   Development review committee preapplication conference
minutes. These minutes shall include the proposed tentative schedules
required by Section 16.44.030.A.2.f.

      2.   If the parcel upon which the park lies was created prior to
January 1, 1960, a parcel map application shall be required. Such
application shall be processed concurrently with any other information
filed pursuant to the preapplication conference;

      3.   Mobile home park conversion impact report, if required at the
preapplication conference to meet the requirements of Section 66427.4 of
the Subdivision Map Act. Such report shall be given to each resident
within the mobile home park;

      4.   Mobile home park plot plan if no plot plan was previously
approved;

      5.   Any special information which was identified by the
committee. Among such information may be information to assist in the
environmental review of the proposal;

      6.   Certificate of Compliance Application. The review and
processing of any application pursuant to this Section shall be subject
to the same review and time requirements and appeal procedures as are
provided in this Title for tentative subdivision maps. In any case where
waiver of the tentative and final map is granted, the planning director
shall cause to be filed for record with the County Recorder a
certificate of compliance pursuant to Chapter 16.36. The planning
director may require a public hearing pursuant to the provisions of
Section 16.08.040.B. of this Code. Should a public hearing be required,
the noticing provisions of Section 66451.3 of the Subdivision Map Act
shall be met.

   C.   Findings of Approval. A mobile home park conversion shall be
approved or conditionally approved only if the following are found and
justified as being true:

      1.   The mobile home park complies with the requirements
established by State law and City ordinance for such uses at the time
the mobile home park was constructed. Such regulations shall include
those regarding to area, improvement and design, flood water drainage
control, public roads, sanitary disposal facilities, water supply and
distribution system environmental protection and other requirements of
the Subdivision Map Act or this Title;

      2.   Any measures necessary to mitigate the impact of the
conversion on current residents of the park have been required as
conditions of approval;

      3.   Applicable noticing requirements of the Subdivision Map Act
have been, or will be, met.

   D.   Conditions of Approval. The following conditions may be required
by the planning agency as conditions of approval for the proposed
conversion.

      1.   Subdivisions permitted by this Chapter may include conditions
requiring a compliance survey inspection to the satisfaction of the
planning agency. However, such survey shall be limited to require
improvements relating only to items of a health and safety nature;

      2.   The mobile home condominiums or stock cooperatives shall be
subject to Title 25 of the State Administrative Code;

      3.   Only additional on-site improvements or development standards
which were applicable at the time the mobile home park was originally
developed may be required;

      4.   Off-site public improvements for qualifying mobile home parks
shall be waived, except as follows:

         a.   Any off-site improvements shall be financed with
appropriate assessment bonds,

         b.   The certificate of compliance shall not be delayed or
contingent upon completion of the off-site improvements;

      5.   Any requirements and/or documents required by the State
Common Interest Development Act, Title 6 (commencing with Section 1350),
Part 4, Division 2 of the State Civil Code;

      6.   Conditions of approval necessary to ensure any noticing
requirements that are required by Section 66427.1 of the Subdivision Map
Act are met;

      7.   Any plan or document required to be submitted to the
Department of Real Estate shall be reviewed for consistency with the
approved project and plot plan. Such plan shall reference the “waiver”
notice requirement in Subsection D.8. of this Section, to the
satisfaction of the planning director;

      8.   Notice shall be placed on the certificate of compliance that
standard subdivision requirements for the creation of condominiums/stock
cooperatives have been waived by the City and only conditions applicable
to the original development of the mobile home park have been required;

      9.   The applicant(s) shall comply with the indemnification
requirements of Section 1.10.050 of this Code;

      10.   The planning agency may impose any conditions of approval to
assure any appropriate measures for relocation assistance are
implemented.

   E.   Any conditions of approval required pursuant to this Chapter
shall be drafted in such a way so as to expedite the conversion process.
No mobile home shall be required to be placed on permanent functions as
a result of the conditional approval.

16.44.040 Fees.

Fees for the preapplication conference and formal application for a
resident initiated conversion of a mobile home park to condominiums or
stock cooperatives shall be as specified in the City’s fee schedule.

Chapter 16.48
LOT REQUIREMENTS

Sections:

   16.48.010   Measurement of Lot Dimensions

   16.48.020   Lot Area Applicability

   16.48.030   Permitted Substandard Lots

   16.48.040   Exceptions

   16.48.050   Multiple-family Residential Density Limits

   16.48.060   Aliquot Part or Metes and Bounds Subdivisions

16.48.010 Measurement of Lot Dimensions.

All required lot widths, whether on rectangular, pie-shaped or other
irregular lots, are measured at the required building setback line. On
any irregularly shaped lot, the required lot dimensions other than lot
width must be satisfied by the average dimensions of the lot.

16.48.020 Lot Area Applicability.

Except as provided in this Chapter, all parcels of land shall conform to
the area regulations of the zone district in which the parcel is
located.

16.48.030 Permitted Substandard Lots.

Any legally created parcel having an area, width or depth less than that
required by an applicable standard set forth in the Development Code or
applicable community plan, may be used or built upon, provided the
development otherwise conforms to the requirements of this Code.

16.48.040 Exceptions.

   A.   If two (2) or more legally created parcels of land or portions
thereof are being combined in order to create a building site which will
more nearly meet the lot area requirements set forth in the Development
Code or applicable community plan, the resulting parcel shall be deemed
to have met the applicable area requirements.

   B.   Where a lot area or yard width or depth has been reduced by any
government agency to not more than twenty-five percent (25%) below the
minimum requirements of the Development Code or applicable community
plan by condemnation, acquisition or dedication for a road, drain or
other public purpose, including any dedication as a result of a
redistricting, deviation or site approval, the lot area existing before
reduction shall be what counts for meeting the requirements of the
Development Code or applicable plan.

   C.   In computing the lot area of a lot which abuts upon one (1) or
more alleys, one-half (1/2) the width of such alley(s) may be assumed to
be a portion of the lot.

   D.   The subdivision of multiple-family dwellings and mobile home
parks that are the subject of an approved site approval shall not be
held to the minimum area requirements of the district.

   E.   Lots to be used for the preservation of historic structures or
land uses may have less than the minimum lot size for the district
provided that:

      1.   The lot’s structure(s) or use(s) has been or may be deemed
historic by an incorporated, non-profit historic preservation
organization;

      2.   The site will not be used for human habitation nor generate
sewage effluent unless it is served by common sewage facilities or
contains at least forty thousand (40,000) square feet, and the
facilities meet the approval of the building and safety department;

      3.   The lot owner will grant an easement in perpetuity to the
City or other governmental body empowered to accept such easement,
restricting further development of the site to non-historic preservation
purposes.

16.48.050 Multiple-family Residential Density Limits.

The number of units allowed on a parcel located in a multiple-family
land use or zone district which specifies the total net lot area per
dwelling unit shall be calculated by dividing the total net area of the
lot in square feet by the figure before the district designation.
Fractional units of fifty percent (50%) or greater shall be rounded to
the next highest number.

16.48.060 Aliquot Part or Metes and Bounds Subdivisions.

Metes and bounds divisions may have actual parcel areas that are ten
percent (10%) less than those required by the applicable zone/land use
district, where the parcels have topographical constraints or where the
parcels of land are created by aliquot part division.

Chapter 16.52
DEDICATION OF LAND AND/OR PAYMENT OF FEES FOR PARK AND RECREATION
PURPOSES

Sections:

   16.52.010   Required

   16.52.020   Definitions

   16.52.030   Dedication of Land

   16.52.040   In-Lieu Fee

   16.52.050   Procedure

   16.52.060   Exemptions

16.52.010 Required.

As a condition of approval of any tentative map and prior to the
approval of every final map, the City shall require dedication of a
portion of such land, payment of a fee in lieu thereof, or a combination
of both, as set forth in this Chapter, for the purpose of establishing
and developing park and recreational facilities to serve the future
residents of such subdivided property.

16.52.020 Definitions.

As used in this Chapter, the following terms are defined in this
Section:

   A.   “Average Population per Dwelling Unit” means 3.70 residents per
dwelling unit as based on the most recent data available in the form of
the federal and state census and study on the population density in the
City.

   B.   “Fair Market Value” means the market value of the land as
determined by staff of the City, and approved by the Planning Commission
or City Council, prior to the approval of the tentative map. If the
subdivider objects to such a valuation, the subdivider, at its own
expense, may obtain an appraisal of the property by a qualified real
estate appraiser approved by the City, whose appraisal may be accepted
by the City if found reasonable. Fair market value may be determined by
mutual agreement of City and subdivider; however, any and all decisions
of the City as to fair market value shall be final and conclusive;

   C.   “Number of Dwelling Units” means the number of dwelling units as
determined by the City based upon the number of units allowed pursuant
to the standards of the Development Code of the City or as otherwise
specified by the City on the property included in the subdivision at the
time the tentative map is filed with the City Council for approval;

   D.   “Planned Park Land Density per One Thousand (1,000) Population”
shall be equal to three (3) acres of park property per one thousand
(1,000) population of persons residing within the City, as determined by
the standards of the recreation element of the General Plan of the City.

16.52.030 Dedication of Land.

Whenever required by the terms of this Chapter, land for park and
recreation purposes shall be dedicated in the amount of three (3) acres
of land for each one thousand (1,000) persons residing within the
subdivision.

16.52.040 In-Lieu Fee.

When the payment of in-lieu fees are required under the terms of this
Chapter, such fees shall be calculated, on a per residential unit basis,
as follows:

 

  ------- ------ --- -------------------------------------------
     A.   NSPF   =   minimum fee per unit 1,000
          N      =   number of proposed dwelling units
          S      =   planned park acreage per 1,000 population
          P      =   average population per dwelling unit
          F      =   fair market value
  ------- ------ --- -------------------------------------------

 

   B.   If a proposed subdivision contains fifty (50) parcels or less,
only the payment of fees, as provided herein, shall be required, unless
otherwise agreed by the City and the developer. However, when a
condominium project, stock cooperative or community apartment project
exceeds fifty (50) dwelling units, dedication or payment of fees shall
be required notwithstanding that the number of dwelling units may be
less than fifty (50).

16.52.050 Procedure.

The requirements of this Chapter shall be complied with prior to the
approval of the final map or parcel map by the provision of park land in
whole or in part, the payment of a park fee, or by a combination of both
as required by City.

   A.   Subdivider. At the time of filing a tentative map application,
the subdivider shall, as part of such filing, state in writing whether
it is desired to dedicate property for park and recreational purposes or
to pay a fee in lieu thereof. If the subdivider desires to dedicate land
for this purpose, the area shall be designated on the tentative tract
map as submitted.

   B.   Action of City. At the time of the tentative tract map approval,
the City shall determine as part of such approval, whether to require a
dedication of the land within the subdivision, payment of a fee in lieu
thereof or a combination of both.

   C.   Prerequisites for Approval of Final Maps. Where dedication is
offered and accepted, it shall be accomplished in accordance with the
provisions of the Subdivision Map Act. Where fees are required, the same
shall be deposited with the City prior to the approval of the final
tract map.

   D.   Determination. The City shall determine whether to require land
dedication, require payment of a fee in lieu thereof or a combination of
both, by consideration of the following:

      1.   Recreation element of the General Plan;

      2.   Topography, geology, access and location of land in the
subdivision available for dedication; and

      3.   Size and shape of the subdivision and land available for
dedication.

   E.   Credit for Private Open Space. Where private open space for park
and recreation purposes is provided in a proposed subdivision and such
space is to be privately owned and maintained by the future residents of
the subdivision, such areas shall be credited up to seventy-five percent
(75%) against the requirement of a dedication for park and recreation
purposes, or the payment of fees in lieu thereof, provided the City
finds it is in the public interest to do so, and that the following
standards are met:

      1.   That yards, court areas, setbacks and other open area
required to be maintained by the zoning, land use district and building
regulations shall not be included in the computation of such private
open space;

      2.   That the private ownership and maintenance of the open space
is adequately provided for by written agreement;

      3.   That the use of the private open space is restricted for park
and recreational purposes by recorded covenants which run with the land
in favor of the future owners of the property within the tract;

      4.   That the proposed private open space is reasonably adaptable
for use for park and recreational purposes, taking into consideration
such factors as size, shape, topography, geology, access and location of
the private open space land; and

      5.   That facilities proposed for the open space are in
substantial accordance with the provisions of the General Plan and are
approved by the Planning Commission and/or City Council.

16.52.060 Exemptions.

   A.   The provisions of this Chapter do not apply to commercial or
industrial subdivisions or to condominium projects which consist of the
subdivision airspace in an existing apartment building which is more
than five (5) years old, when no new dwelling units are added.

   B.   Subdivisions containing less than five (5) parcels and not used
for residential purposes shall be exempt from the requirements of this
Chapter, provided, however, that a condition shall be placed on the
approval of such parcel map that if a building permit is requested for
construction of a residential structure or structures on one (1) or more
of the parcels within four (4) years, the fee shall be required to be
paid by the owner of each such parcel as a condition of the issuance of
such permit.

TITLE 17
ADELANTO ZONING ORDINANCE

Chapters:

   17.01   GENERAL PROVISIONS

   17.03   ESTABLISHMENT OF PLANNING COMMISSION

   17.05   ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

   17.10   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

   17.20   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS

   17.22   AIRPORT PARK

   17.25   COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS

   17.30   BUSINESS AND MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS

   17.35   PUBLIC FACILITIES AND PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT

   17.40   OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC LAND AND SCHOOLS AND GREENBELT CORRIDOR
DISTRICTS

   17.45   AIRPORT PARK OVERLAY DISTRICT (APO)

   17.46   AFFORDABLE HOUSING OVERLAY DISTRICT (AHO)

   17.50   MIXED USE DISTRICT

   17.57   BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES

   17.60   LANDSCAPING/WATER CONSERVATION

   17.65   PARKING AND LOADING

   17.67   TRIP REDUCTION

   17.70   SIGNS

   17.75   TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES

   17.80   SPECIAL USE STANDARDS

   17.83   SURFACE MINING AND LAND RECLAMATION

   17.85   ADULT BUSINESS REGULATIONS

   17.90   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

   17.91   GRADING REGULATIONS

   17.92   CONDITIONAL GRADING COMPLIANCE

   17.93   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL

   17.95   HOME OCCUPATION PERMITS

   17.100   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

   17.110   GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENTS

   17.115   ZONING CODE AND ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS

   17.120   SPECIFIC PLAN ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT

   17.130   CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS

   17.135   VARIANCES - MAJOR

   17.140   VARIANCES - MINOR

   17.150   LOCATION AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL

   17.155   TEMPORARY USE PERMIT

   17.165   NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES

   17.170   COVENANTS OF EASEMENTS

   17.180   SUBDIVISION OF LAND

   17.190   ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW

   17.195    REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION IN HOUSING

   17.200   DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS OF TERMS

CHAPTER 17.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS

   17.01.010   Authority for this Zoning Code

   17.01.020   Short Title

   17.01.030   Purpose

   17.01.040   Relationship to General Plan

   17.01.050   Relationship to the California Environmental Quality Act

   17.01.060   Relationship to Other Regulations

   17.01.070   Effect of Zoning Code

   17.01.080   Terminology Used in the Zoning Code

   17.01.090   Minimum Requirements of this Zoning Code

   17.01.100   Reference to Any Portion of this Zoning Code

   17.01.110   Severability of Any Portion of this Zoning Code

   17.01.120   Violations of the Zoning Code

17.01.010 Authority for this Zoning Code

   This Zoning Code is adopted pursuant to Article XI, Section 7, of the
Constitution of the State of California and in compliance with the
requirements of Title 7 of the Government Code, Planning and Zoning Law,
for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, and general welfare.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]

17.01.020 Short Title

   This Zoning Code shall be known as the “Adelanto Zoning Code.”

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]

17.01.030 Purpose

   The purposes of this Zoning Code are:

   (a)   To implement the Adelanto General Plan and Adelanto North 2035
Comprehensive Sustainable Plan;

   (b)   To classify, segregate, restrict, designate, regulate, and
encourage the best type, location, and use of buildings, structures, and
land;

   (c)   To limit the intensity, height, number of stories, and size of
buildings and other structures hereafter designed, erected, or altered;

   (d)   To regulate and determine the size of yards and other open
spaces;

   (e)   To regulate and limit the intensity of development;

   (f)   To facilitate adequate provisions for community facilities,
such as transportation, water, sewage, schools, and parks; and

   (g)   To provide the economic and social advantages resulting from an
orderly use of land and its resources.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]

17.01.040 Relationship to General Plan

   This Zoning Code is intended to provide the legislative framework to
enhance and implement the goals, policies, plans, principles, and
standards of the Adelanto General Plan and Adelanto North 2035
Comprehensive Sustainable Plan.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]

17.01.050 Relationship to the California Environmental Quality Act

   When projects are determined to be subject to the provisions of the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), applications shall be
reviewed in accordance with the provisions of this Zoning Code, the
California Environmental Quality Act, the CEQA Guidelines, and any
environmental guidelines adopted by the City of Adelanto.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]

17.01.060 Relationship to Other Regulations

   (a)   The provisions of this Zoning Code shall not be interpreted to
repeal, amend, modify, alter, or change any other code that is not
specifically repealed, amended, modified, altered, or changed.

   (b)   Nothing in this Zoning Code shall be interpreted to authorize
the use of a lot or parcel in any way that is in violation of any other
applicable statute, code, or regulation.

   (c)   When provisions of various adopted codes are different, the
more restrictive provisions shall apply, except as the same may be
superseded by resolution or ordinance.

   (d)   The rights granted by any permit, license, or other approval
under any ordinance repealed by this Zoning Code shall be continued, but
in the future, to the extent permitted by law, such rights shall be
exercised in accordance with the provisions of this Zoning Code.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]

17.01.070 Effect of Zoning Code

   No person shall use any premises except as specifically permitted by
and subject to the regulations and conditions of this Zoning Code.
Except as otherwise provided herein, wherever this Zoning Code prohibits
the use of premises for a particular purpose, those premises and any
improvements on those premises shall not be used for that purpose, and
no structure or improvement shall be constructed, altered, or moved onto
the premises which is designed, arranged, or intended to be occupied or
used for that purpose.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]

17.01.080 Terminology Used in the Zoning Code

   For the purposes of carrying out the intent of this Zoning Code, and
unless the context clearly indicates another meaning, the following
words, phrases, and terms shall have the meaning ascribed to them as
follows:

   (a)   References in the masculine and feminine genders are
interchangeable.

   (b)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words in
the present and future are interchangeable, and words in the singular
and plural are interchangeable.

   (c)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary the
following conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:

      (1)   “And” indicates that all connected items or provisions
apply.

      (2)   “Or” indicates that the connected items or provisions may
apply singularly or in any combination.

      (3)   “Either..or” indicates that the connected items or
provisions shall apply singularly but not in combination.

   (d)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, other
words and phrases shall be construed as set forth in this Chapter.

   (e)   The word “City” shall mean the City of Adelanto.

   (f)   The word “Council” shall mean the City of Adelanto City
Council, the governing body of the City.

   (g)   The word “County” shall mean the County of San Bernardino.

   (h)   The word “Director” shall mean the Planning Director of the
City of Adelanto.

   (i)   The word “Planning Commission” shall mean the City of Adelanto
Planning Commission.

   (j)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary. The word
“may” is permissive and discretionary.

   (k)   The word “State” shall mean the State of California.

   (l)   The word “use” shall include arrange, design, construct, alter,
convert, rent, lease, occupy, or intend to utilize.

   (m)   The words “Zoning Code” or “Code” shall be Title 17 of the
Municipal Code of the City of Adelanto.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]

17.01.090 Minimum Requirements of this Zoning Code

   The provisions of this Zoning Code shall be interpreted and applied
as the minimum requirements and the maximum potential limits for the
protection of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and
general welfare.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]

17.01.100 Reference to Any Portion of this Zoning Code

   Wherever reference is made to any provision of this Zoning Code, or
to any other law or ordinance, the reference shall apply to that law or
ordinance and any amendments or additions made thereto.\

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]

17.01.110 Severability of Any Portion of this Zoning Code

   If any section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this Zoning Code is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
this Zoning Code. The City Council hereby declares that it would have
adopted this Zoning Code and each section, subsection, subdivision,
sentence, clause, phrase, or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, sentences,
clauses, phrases, or portions thereof be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]

17.01.120 Violations of the Zoning Code

   Unless a violation of this Zoning Code is designated as an
infraction, any violation of any provision hereof is declared to be a
misdemeanor subjecting the violator to punishment in accordance with the
Municipal Code.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]

CHAPTER 17.03
ESTABLISHMENT OF PLANNING COMMISSION

   17.03.010   Planning Commission Established

   17.03.020   Time and Place of Meetings

   17.03.030   Special Meetings

   17.03.040   Adjourned Meetings

   17.03.050   Officers

   17.03.060   Conduct at Planning Commission Meetings

   17.03.070   Public Hearing Procedures

17.03.010 Planning Commission Established

Pursuant to the Adelanto Municipal Code, there is hereby established the
"Adelanto Planning Commission." The appointment and service of the
members of the Commission shall be as set forth in the Municipal Code.

17.03.020 Time and Place of Meetings

The regular meetings of the Planning Commission shall be held on the
first and third Wednesday of each month. However, if the date of any
such regular meeting falls on a holiday, the regular meeting shall be
held on the next succeeding day that is not a holiday. Unless and until
changed by Resolution of the Planning Commission, the regular meetings
shall be held at the hour of 3:30 p.m. and shall be held at:

   City Hall Council Chambers

   11600 Air Base Road

   Adelanto, California

The Planning Commission may, by Resolution, change the location of its
regular meetings. In the event the location designated by this Chapter
or subsequent Planning Commission Resolution is unavailable for a
regular meeting, the Planning Commission Secretary shall cause notice of
the same to be provided to the Commission, the press, applicants having
items scheduled on the agenda, and any member of the public requesting
the same. The Planning Commission Secretary shall further cause notice
of the change in meeting location to be posted on the door of the
regular meeting location at least four hours prior to the meeting. Such
notice shall include the address and directions to the location where
the meeting will be held.

[Ord. No. 657, Section 2, 6/11/25]

17.03.030 Special Meetings

A special meeting may be called at any time by the Chair or by three of
the members of the Planning Commission by written notice to each member
and to each person or entity entitled by law at least seventy two (72)
hours before the time of such special meeting, as required under
Government Code Section 54956.

17.03.040 Adjourned Meetings

The Planning Commission may continue or adjourn any meeting and public
hearing to a time and place specified in the order of adjournment in
accordance with those provisions set forth in Government Code Section
54955.

17.03.050 Officers

The City Council shall select the Chair and Vice-Chair of the Commission
in accordance with the Municipal Code.

17.03.060 Conduct at Planning Commission Meetings

The Adelanto Municipal Code shall apply to all meetings of the Planning
Commission, excepting that references to the City Council, Council
Member, or legislative body shall be deemed to apply to the Planning
Commission and/or the Members thereof. All references to the Mayor or
Presiding Officer shall be deemed to apply to the Chair of the Planning
Commission. All references to the Mayor Pro-Tem shall be deemed to apply
to the Commission's Vice-Chair.

17.03.070 Public Hearing Procedures

The Planning Commission shall follow the same procedures for the conduct
of public hearings as those adopted by the City Council or as the same
may be hereinafter amended or modified.

CHAPTER 17.05
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

   17.05.010   Zoning Districts Established

   17.05.020   Adoption of Zoning Map

   17.05.030   Uncertainty of Boundaries

17.05.010 Zoning Districts Established

   The following zoning districts and overlay districts are established
to carry out the purposes of this Code:

  ---------- --------------
  District   Abbreviation
  ---------- --------------

  --------------------------------------------------------- --------------
  District                                                  Abbreviation
  Desert Living (9 Acre Net)                                DL-9
  Desert Living (5 Acre Net) Desert Living (2.5 Acre Net)   DL-5 DL-2.5
  Single Family Residential (0.41 to 1 DU/AC)               R-S1
  Single Family Residential (2 DU/AC)                       R1-.5
  Single Family Residential (Up to 4 DU/AC)                 R1
  Single Family Residential (1.1 to 5 DU/AC)                R-S5
  Medium Density Residential (Up to 8 DU/AC)                R3-8
  Medium Density Residential (5 to 12 DU/AC)                R-M12
  High Density Residential (Up to 30 DU/AC)                 R3-30
  Mixed Use (Residential Density 18 DU/AC)                  MU
  Airport Park (1 DU/AC Gross)                              AP
  Affordable Housing Overlay (20 DU/Net AC to 30 DU/AC)     AHO
  General Commercial                                        C
  Business Park                                             BP
  Light Manufacturing                                       LM
  Manufacturing/Industrial                                  MI
  Airport Development District                              ADD
  Airport Park Overlay                                      APO
  Community Facility                                        CF
  Open Space/Public Land/School                             OS
  Public Facility                                           PF
  Public Utilities                                          PU
  Greenbelt Corridor: Drainage Easement                     DE
  Greenbelt Corridor: Utility Easement                      UE
                                                            
  --------------------------------------------------------- --------------

 

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit D, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit E, 9/10/14;
Ord. No. 652, Exhibit 1, 7/24/24.]

17.05.020 Adoption of Zoning Map

   The General Plan, Land Use/Zoning Map of the City of Adelanto,
approved by voters of the City of Adelanto on November 8, 1994 or as
subsequently amended by the Adelanto City Council, and on file with the
City Clerk, is adopted by reference and shall hereafter exists pursuant
to and is an integral part of this Zoning Code.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit D, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit E, 9/10/14.]

17.05.030 Uncertainty of Boundaries

   Where uncertainty exists as to zone boundaries of any zone district
shown upon the Zoning Map, or any part thereof, the following provisions
shall apply:

   (a)   Where zone boundaries are shown as approximately following
legal lot lines or the right-of-way lines of highways, streets, or
alleys, such lines shall be the zone boundaries. In all other cases
where a district abuts a highway, street, or alley, the zone boundaries
shall extend to the centerline of the highway, street, or alley.

   (b)   In the case of unsubdivided property where a zone boundary
divides a lot, the location of the boundary, unless the boundary is
indicated by dimensions or legal description, shall be determined by use
of the scale appearing on the Zoning Map.

   (c)   Where a public highway, street, or alley, or any portion
thereof is officially vacated or abandoned, the vacated or abandoned
highway, street or alley shall acquire the zone classification of the
property to which the vacated or abandoned portion reverts.

   (d)   Any submerged lands to be reclaimed by fill for use as a land
area shall be prezoned prior to City approval of the fill. The prezone
shall be consistent with the General Plan. Permitted fill activities
required in an emergency for the protection of public health or safety
shall be exempt from this requirement.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit D, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit E, 9/10/14.]

CHAPTER 17.10
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

   17.10.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.10.020   Maintenance of Properties

   17.10.030   Nuisances

   17.10.040   Identification of Front Lot Lines

   17.10.050   Determination of Front Yards and Required Setbacks

   17.10.060   Required Lot Standards Reduced by Public Use

   17.10.070   Maximum Projections into Yards

   17.10.080   Clear Areas

   17.10.090   Right-of-Way Dedication

   17.10.100   Measurement of Building Height

   17.10.120   Fences, Walls, and Hedges

   17.10.130   General Design Compatibility and Enhancement

   17.10.140   Shielding of Roof Appurtenances

   17.10.150    Land Use Intensity and Floor-Area Ratio

17.10.010 Intent and Purpose

   The development standards contained in this Chapter are general in
nature and apply to all zoning districts, unless otherwise indicated.
These standards are provided as minimum or maximum standards and may be
modified by more stringent standards in particular districts and/or due
to specific situations. The primary intent of this Chapter is to provide
generally acceptable standards of development for Adelanto.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.020 Maintenance of Properties

   All properties within the City shall be kept and maintained in a
clean, neat, orderly, operable, and usable condition. This requirement
applies to buildings, paving, fences, walls, landscaping, water, earth,
and any other structures or natural features.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.030 Nuisances

   Neither the provisions of this Zoning Code nor the granting of any
permit provided for in this Zoning Code shall authorize or legalize the
creation or maintenance of any public or private nuisance.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.040 Identification of Front Lot Lines

   Occasionally, a lot is adjacent to more than one street. In such
cases, the following requirements shall be observed in identifying the
front lot line.

   (a)   When a lot exists between two developed lots which both abut
the same street, the front lot line shall be on the same street as the
existing developed lots on either side.

   (b)   When a lot is adjacent to vacant lots or developed lots which
abut either street, the following criteria shall apply:

      (1)   Where one street is of a higher classification than the
other, the lot line fronting the street with the lower classification
shall be the front lot line.

      (2)   If the lot in question is a corner lot and both streets are
of the same classification, the narrower of the two frontages shall be
designated the front lot line.

      (3)   The Planning Director shall make the determination when the
above criteria cannot be clearly applied to the particular situation as
a result of topography or other factors.

   (c)   The front lot line for a corner lot or a reverse corner lot is
the lot line which fronts the street with the lower classification. If
both streets are of the same classification, the narrower of the two
frontages shall be designated the front lot line, except in those cases
where the subdivision or parcel map specifies another line as the front
lot line.

   (d)   The front lot line for a cul-de-sac lot is that lot line which
abuts the cul-de-sac street.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.050 Determination of Front Yards and Required Setbacks

   (a)   Through Lots

      Both frontages of a through lot shall have a minimum setback from
both streets of twenty feet (20'), unless the provisions of this Zoning
Code allow for reduced non-garage and rear setbacks for shallow lots.

   (b)   Key Lots

      The depth of the required front yard of a key lot shall not be
less than the average depth of the street-abutting yards of the
adjoining interior and reversed corner lots. The garage portion of the
primary structure shall require a minimum front yard setback of not less
than twenty feet (20').

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.060 Required Lot Standards Reduced by Public Use

   (a)   Area

      If a portion of a lot or parcel of land is acquired by any means
including dedication, purchase, or condemnation, or for any public use
including recreation, services, or utilities, that lot or parcel shall
be considered conforming as long as the area is reduced to no less than
ninety percent (90%) of the minimum required area for the zoning
district in which the lot or parcel is located. The Planning Commission
shall have the authority to reduce the ninety percent (90%) minimum
required area pursuant to all the conditions and procedures relating to
Minor Variances found in Chapter 17.140 of this Zoning Code.

   (b)   Width

      If a portion of a lot or parcel is acquired by any means,
including dedication, purchase, or condemnation, or for any public use
which may include recreation, services, or utilities, that lot or parcel
shall be considered conforming as long as the width is not reduced by
more than thirty percent (30%). In no case, however, shall a lot less
than forty feet (40') in width be considered conforming.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.070 Maximum Projections into Yards

   All required yard areas shall be open and unobstructed from finished
grade to the sky, except that projections into yard areas shall be
permitted as indicated in Table 10-1. The architectural projections
listed in the table must be attached to the principal building existing
or planned on the lot.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.080 Clear Areas

   (a)   In all zoning districts, a clear corner area for sight
visibility purposes shall be provided at the intersection of all
streets, alley ways and private driveways in accordance with the
following:

      (1)   The following shall be prohibited within the clear sight
triangle.

         A.   Monument signs.

         B.   Hedges or shrubbery.

      (2)   The following shall not be erected, placed, planted, or
allowed to grow over 30 inches in height above the nearest street curb
elevation within a clear sight triangle:

         A.   Fences and walls.

         B.   Signs.

         C.   Structures.

         D.   Mounds.

         E.   Other visual obstructions.

      (3)   The requirements for clear sight triangles shall not apply
to:

         A.   Traffic safety devices.

         B.   Trees trimmed to eight feet above the adjoining curb.

         C.   Utility poles.

         D.   Other government/utility devices.

         E.   Freestanding signs where the lower edge of the sign is
eight feet or more above the adjoining curb and the supporting
structures are no more the 12" in diameter.

      (4)   Clear sight triangles are right angles that shall be
measured as follows:

         A.   The 90 degree angle is formed by the intersection of
either:

            1.   The intersection of the edges of two roadways as
measured at the edge of their ultimate planned right-of-way; or

            2.   The intersection of the edge of a private driveway or
alley and the edge of the ultimate planned right-of-way of an
intersecting roadway.

         B.   The two 45-degree angles of a clear sight triangle shall
each be located as follows (See Figure 10-1 and 10-2 ):

            1.   30 feet from roadway intersections.

            2.   10 feet from the intersections of alleys or driveways.

Figure 10-1

[]

Figure 10-2

[]

   (b)   No structure or projection shall be permitted within three (3)
feet of any lot line except as provided for in Table 10-1 .

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

TABLE 10-1
MAXIMUM PERMITTED PROJECTIONS INTO REQUIRED YARD AREAS

Feature

Front and Street Side Yards

Rear

Interior Side Yards and Courts

Maximum Projection

Above Height Limit

Maximum Projection Into Yard Area (a)

Maximum Projection Into Rear Yard Area

Maximum Projection Into Side Yard Area (a)

Feature

Front and Street Side Yards

Rear

Interior Side Yards and Courts

Maximum Projection

Above Height Limit

Maximum Projection Into Yard Area (a)

Maximum Projection Into Rear Yard Area

Maximum Projection Into Side Yard Area (a)

Antenna/Satellite Dishes

Not permitted

Allowed - see Chapter 17.80

Not permitted

See Chapter 17.80

Awnings

4'0"

4'0"

2'0"

Not permitted

Balconies or Stairways and Stairway Landings

2'6"

2'6"

2'0"

Not permitted

Bay Windows (b)

4'0"

4'0"

2'0"

N/A

Chimneys

4'0"

4'0"

2'0"

Per minimum height above roof established by the UBC

Architectural Projections:
Cornices, Eaves, Porte Cochere, and Roof Overhangs

2'0"

4'0"

2'0"

Not permitted

Decks 30" Above Grade, Not To Exceed First Story or 7'6"

Not permitted

4'0" (c)

2'0"

N/A

Patios, Open (d)

Patios, Enclosed(d)

Not permitted in Front Yard;

4'0" projection permitted into Side Yard

Not permitted

15'0" and minimum 5' from rear lot line

Not allowed

Not permitted

Swimming Pools and Spas

(5,000+ gal.)

Not permitted in front yard (e)

No closer than 5'0" to any property line

Not permitted, except in Street Side Yard

N/A

Barbeque Structures

• Without Sink

• With Sink

Not permitted

Not permitted

No closer than 1'0" to any property line

No closer than 3'0" to any property line

No closer than 1'0" to any property line

No closer than 3'0" to any property line

N/A

N/A

Pool Equipment

(5,000+ gal.)

Not permitted in Front Yard; See note (e) for Street Side Yards

May project any distance into rear yard, provided the following
distances are maintained:

• If adjacent to open space, non-residential zoning district, or street,
must be at least 5 feet from any property line

• If adjacent to other residence(s), must be at least 10 feet from rear
property line, 5 feet from side property line.

2'0"

N/A

HVAC, Mech. Equip., Window-Mounted Air Conditioners

Not permitted

3"0"

2'0"

Not permitted

Wind Energy Conversion Systems

Not permitted

No closer than 5'0" to any property line (f)

No closer than 5'0" to any property line (f)

40'0" in DL Zone.

Solar Energy Conversion Systems

Not permitted

No closer than 5'0" to any property line

No closer than 5'0" to any property line

Not permitted

 

Notes for Table 10-1:

(a)   On a corner lot, projections permitted in a front yard setback
also apply to a street side yard.

(b)   Bay windows shall have no livable area, except a bench seat, and
shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the length of the wall
containing the window.

(c)   For decks in rear yards where the rear yard abuts public open
space or permanent private open space that is maintained by the City, a
homeowners’ association, or similar entity, the deck may project to
within five (5) feet of the rear property line.

(d)   These projections apply to the patio structure itself, and not to
any paving or other “flatwork” less than thirty (30) inches above grade
that does not require a building permit.

(e)   Pool or spa and associated equipment may project into Street Side
Yard, but must maintain five (5) foot separation from side property
line.

(f)   In accordance with 17.80.060 (c).

   (c)   Nothing shall be placed or allowed to grow in the clear corner
area in a manner which obstructs visibility or threatens vehicular or
pedestrian safety, as determined by the City Engineer.

   (d)   Traffic control devices, traffic signs, utility poles,
transformers, or pedestals or other traffic control devices or street
furniture in excess of thirty (30) inches in height may be located
within the clear corner area.

   (e)   Due to roadway geometrics and traffic characteristics, a
greater visibility area may be required to minimize visual obstruction
to motorist and pedestrians, as determined by the City Engineer.

[Ord. No. 502, Section 5, 4/27/11; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.090 Right-of-Way Dedication

   (a)   Dedication and Improvement

      (1)   A Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued for any site,
building, or structure until all required dedications and improvements
abutting rights-of-way for the site, building, or structure have been
made to the ultimate right-of-way shown in the General Plan and as
determined by the City Engineer. Improvements shall include, but are not
limited to curbs, gutters, sidewalks, paving, street trees, traffic
improvements and drainage. All improvements shall be constructed to the
specifications and in a manner prescribed by the City Engineer. All
on-site and off-site improvements shall be approved and accepted by the
City Engineer prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.

      (2)   In lieu of dedication, the City Council may accept an
irrevocable offer to dedicate and improve. Such agreement shall be
signed by all persons having any right, title, interest, or lien in the
property, or any portion thereof, to be dedicated. The signatures on
such offer shall be acknowledged, and the agreement shall be recorded in
the Office of the San Bernardino County Recorder prior to certificate of
occupancy.

   (b)   Exceptions

      In cases where the strict application of this Zoning Code fails to
meet community objectives as identified in the General Plan,
modifications to right-of-way dedication and improvement requirements
may be authorized by the City Council.

   (c)   Dedication Standards

      Highways, streets, and alleys to be dedicated shall be built to
standards as established by the City Engineer to qualify for dedication.

   (d)   Agreement to Improve

      (1)   In lieu of the required improvements and if in the best
interest of the City, the City Council may accept from any responsible
party an agreement to make the specified improvements within a specified
time period.

      (2)   Such agreements shall be accompanied by security deposits
which may include cash, negotiable bonds, or savings and loan
certificates, letters of credit, or other security as authorized by the
City Engineer. The security deposit shall equal the cost of the agreed
upon improvements. Where savings and loan certificates or deposits are
deposited, the owners thereof shall assign the certificates to the City
and administration adjusted for inflation as determined by the City
Engineer. Such deposit and assignment shall be subject to and in
compliance with the provisions and conditions of the Municipal Zoning
Code of the City.

      (3)   If the estimated cost of the improvements equals or exceeds
$1,000, the applicant may file a corporate surety bond (improvement
bond) with the City in lieu of the deposit. Such corporate surety bond
shall guarantee the adequate completion of all of the improvements in a
penal sum equal to the estimated cost.

      (4)   In cases where the stipulated time within which improvements
were to be made expires, the City Council may grant additional time as
it considers appropriate. Granting of additional time shall include
recalculation of improvement costs and security deposits. The extension
must be granted prior to expiration of the time limit.

      (5)   Should the responsible person fail to complete any
improvement within the agreed upon time, the City Council may determine
that the agreed upon improvement is incomplete and may cause a portion
of the deposit or surety bond to be forfeited to the City to complete or
correct the work. Such forfeiture shall not exceed the amount required
to complete the agreed upon work and expenses incurred by the City as a
result of the default. Not less than ten (10) days prior to such a
determination, the City shall serve the person with written notice. If
the written notice is delivered by mail, it must be sent by certified
mail and shall be served not less than twenty (20) days prior to the
determination. If after ten (10) days the City has not received the
return receipt or the letter is returned to the City “refused,” the same
shall be sent by regular First-Class U.S. Mail and a declaration of
mailing completed and filed.

   (e)   Adequate Rights-of-Way

      The City Council may grant a modification to the provisions of
this section, thereby relieving the applicant from compliance with all
or a portion of the provisions thereof, subject to the following
findings:

      (1)   That relieving or partially relieving the applicant’s
development from providing the required dedications and improvements is
consistent with the General Plan and the best interest of the City of
Adelanto; and

      (2)   The required improvements are included in a budgeted City
project which will be complete prior to the start of the applicant’s
development or within an approved assessment district and the
improvement can be more effectively provided by the City; or

      (3)   The required construction would create a temporary drainage
or traffic problem that can be avoided by delaying the improvement to a
later date as part of comprehensive improvements to the area; or

      (4)   The City Engineer determines current improvements to be
satisfactory.

   All requests for modifications shall be made in the form of a Major
Variance application, as specified in Chapter 17.135.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.100 Measurement of Building Height

   The height limits for buildings are described in Chapters 17.20
through 17.40 for each of the individual zoning districts. Building
height shall be defined and measured as prescribed in the Uniform
Building Code.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.120 Fences, Walls, and Hedges

   (a)   In residential districts, the maximum height of all fences,
walls, and hedges at all locations, except in the required front yard,
is six feet (6'), unless otherwise stated in this Chapter. In all other
districts, the maximum height at all locations, except the required
front yard, is eight feet (8'), unless otherwise stated in this Chapter.
The height shall be measured from the top of wall to finished grade.

   (b)   Retaining and Crib Walls

      The heights of any portion of wall or fence which retains earth or
water, except in the required front yard, shall be limited as follows.
The height of the wall shall not include any guard rail or open fence
(defined in section c.4, below) required by the Uniform Building Code or
the City.

      (1)   Walls Built on Slopes of Less Than 15 Percent - For walls
constructed on slopes with a less than fifteen percent (15%) grade, the
fence and wall heights specified in subsection (a) above shall apply.

      (2)   Alternative to Height Limit of Retaining Walls - Stepping of
retaining walls is permitted subject to approval of a Planning Use
Permit, as described in Chapter 17.150. Stepping is allowed, provided
that the minimum horizontal distance between the top of the downslope
retaining wall, fence, and/or landscaping, and the bottom of the up
slope retaining wall, fence, and/or landscaping, shall be equal to the
vertical height of the downslope retaining wall, fence, and/or
landscaping. Approval shall be considered when the wall is landscaped
and does not create conditions or situations that may be detrimental or
incompatible with other permitted uses in the vicinity. Any guardrails
required by the Building Official shall be open-type guardrails, and the
rail shall be exempted from maximum required height measurements. Crib
walls with a vertical slope of at least one-half to one (½:1) are exempt
from these stepping requirements.

   (c)   Height Within the Required Front Yard

      (1)   The clear area requirements contained in Section 17.10.080
shall apply.

      (2)   Fences, whether solid, open, or transparent, with the
exception of subdivision (3) below, shall not exceed forty-eight inches
(48") in height.

      (3)   Brick or concrete pilasters used in conjunction with
wrought-iron fencing shall not be greater than eighteen inches (18") by
eighteen inches (18") in width, and not greater than forty-eight inches
(48") in height, and not spaced closer than eight feet (8') apart.
Wrought iron in a fence constructed with pilasters shall not exceed
forty-eight inches (48") in height.

      (4)   Open fence material, whether wood or wrought iron, shall not
exceed two inches (2") in width nor be spaced less than four inches (4")
apart.

      (5)   The height of retaining walls in the front yard shall be
equal to or less than thirty inches (30"). The total height of any wall
in a front yard, including a retaining portion, shall be equal to or
less than forty-eight inches (48").

   (d)   Fences or walls shall provide a gate or other suitable opening
no less than thirty inches (30") in width to provide access to primary
or accessory structures.

   (e)   Fences, which were legally constructed prior to the adoption of
this Zoning Code, but made nonconforming as a result of the adoption of
the Zoning Code, are exempt from amortization.

   (f)   Chain link fencing shall not be permitted in any single-family
residential subdivision built after these standards are adopted and are
not permitted in any existing subdivision unless more than 50 percent of
houses on the same block have existing chain link fences.

      (1)   Chain link fencing may be approved by the Community
Development Director for individually built single-family residential
units located in the following zoning designations: DL-2.5, DL-5, DL-9,
and AP.

      (2)   Chain link fencing may be approved by the Community
Development Director for use inside an existing solid fence as long as
it is not visible from the Right-of-way.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.130 General Design Compatibility and Enhancement

   (a)   Any new building or structure, any addition to an existing
building or structure, and installation or construction of any site
improvements shall be designed to create a unified functional and
comprehensive site plan. The improvements shall have an integrated
architectural theme that is compatible with and will complement and
enhance the subject and surrounding properties, as determined by the
Planning Director.

   (b)   For residential subdivisions which have been subdivided by a
master builder or developer for the purpose of constructing a unified
subdivision, new units constructed within that subdivision shall be
compatible in design with units constructed during earlier phases. This
requirement shall not apply to custom lot or custom home sales
subdivisions.

   (c)   Additional design requirements can be found in Chapter 17.15
Design Review of this Zoning Code.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.140 Shielding of Roof Appurtenances

   All roof appurtenances including, but not limited to, air
conditioning units and mechanical equipment, shall be shielded and
architecturally screened from view from on-site parking areas, public
streets from a point immediately adjacent to the site, and adjacent
residentially-zoned properties. Wind Energy and Solar Energy Conversion
Systems shall be exempt from this requirement.

[Ord. No. 502, Section 5, 4/27/11; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]

17.10.150 Land Use Intensity and Floor-Area Ratio

   The City of Adelanto uses a floor-area ratio (FAR) to measure the
intensity of non-residential development. The FAR defines the ratio of
the total gross floor area of all buildings on a lot to the total land
area of the lot. As a formula, FAR equals the total covered area on all
floors of all buildings proposed for a certain plot (gross floor area),
divided by the total area of the plot on which the development is
proposed. It is useful to note that FAR alone does not describe the form
of buildings. For example, a FAR of 1.0 may yield a one-story building
that covers the entire lot, or a two story building that covers half of
the lot, or a number of other possible configurations.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14]

CHAPTER 17.15
DESIGN REVIEW

   17.15.010   Purpose and Intent

   17.15.020   Projects Requiring Design Review

   17.15.030   Authority

   17.15.040   Single-Family Residential Design Standards

   17.15.050   Multi-Family Residential Design Standards

   17.15.060   Commercial Design Standards

   17.15.070   Industrial Design Standards

17.15.010   Purpose and Intent

   (a)   This section establishes the review procedures for residential,
commercial and industrial development proposals to facilitate project
review by local responsible agencies and the Design Review Committees in
a timely and efficient manner; to ensure that development projects
comply with all applicable local design guidelines, standards and
ordinances; to minimize adverse effects on surrounding properties and
the environment; and are consistent with the General Plan which promotes
high aesthetic and functional standards to complement and add to the
physical, economic and social character of Adelanto.

   (b)   In addition, the City finds that a Design Review process will
support the implementation of the General Plan as it stresses quality
community design standards. The City further finds that the quality of
certain residential, commercial and industrial uses have a substantial
impact upon the visual appeal, environmental soundness, economic
stability, and property values of the City. This section is not intended
to restrict imagination, innovation or variety, but rather to focus on
community design principles which can result in creative imaginative
solutions for the project and a quality design for the City. It is,
therefore, the purpose of this section to:

      (1)   Recognize the interdependence of land values and aesthetics
and provide a method by which the City may implement this
interdependence to its benefit.

      (2)   Encourage the orderly and harmonious appearance of
structures and property within the City along with associated
facilities, such as signs, landscaping, parking and streets.

      (3)   Maintain the public health, safety and general welfare and
property throughout the City.

      (4)   Assist private and public developments to be more cognizant
of public concerns for the aesthetics of development.

      (5)   Encouraging the use of a variety of housing styles, varied
lot sizes, site design densities, maintenance of views and arrangement
and spacing.

      (6)   To help insure that adequate levels of public services are
provided for existing and future development in the City.

      (7)   To encourage orderly development of residences within areas
more readily served by public services.

      (8)   To encourage the development of master planned projects,
which provide the service needs of the residents of these projects.

      (9)   To encourage use of sustainability principles in all new
development.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]

17.15.020   Projects Requiring Design Review

   A Design Review is required for all residential, commercial and
industrial projects involving the issuance of a building permit
including the construction or reconstruction of structures which meet
the following criteria:

   (a)   New construction on vacant property.

   (b)   Structural additions or new buildings which are equal to fifty
percent (50%) of the floor area of existing on-site building(s), or have
a minimum of ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area.

   (c)   Reconstruction projects which are equal to fifty percent (50%)
of the floor area of existing on-site building(s), or have a minimum ten
thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area.

   (d)   Projects involving a substantial change or intensification of
land use, such as the conversion of an existing building to a
restaurant, or the conversion of a residential structure to an office or
commercial use.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]

17.15.030   Authority

   The Planning Commission, Planning Director or Planning Director
Designee shall be the responsible decision making bodies for all Design
Reviews in accordance with Chapter 17.100 (Administrative Procedures).

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]

17.15.040   Single-Family Residential Design Standards

   (a)   Purpose

      To promote high-quality single-family residential development
within the City of Adelanto.

   (b)   Site Planning

      The following design standards apply to the internal organization
of new single-family residential development. The intent of the design
standards is to ensure that the relationships of units to each other and
to other on-site uses are functional, attractive, and create visual
variety along the project's streets.

      (1)   Site Character - Existing natural amenities (views, mature
trees, and/or topographic features) and other amenities (structures of
architectural significance and cultural resources) unique to the site
shall be preserved and incorporated into the project's design whenever
possible.

      (2)   Variation of Development Patterns - Variation of development
patterns shall be incorporated in new subdivisions to achieve visual
diversity and avoid a monotonous appearance by use of at least one (1)
of the following options:

         A.   Vary the front yard setback which will create different
patterns of open space along the street edge. (See Footnote C of Table
20-1)

         B.   Vary the side setbacks of houses while maintaining fifteen
feet (15') between adjacent structures to result in different types of
yards and private patio areas and to create variety and interest.

         C.   Vary garage location to include the face of garages set
more forward and deeper on a lot. Variations can also include front or
side entry and attached and detached garages.

      (3)   Streets

         A.   New project streets shall connect with existing public
streets to form a continuous neighborhood network of streets whenever
possible.

         B.   Blocks longer than six hundred feet (600') are
discouraged, but may be considered provided they incorporate at least
one (1) of the following options:

            i.   Significant differences shall be incorporated in the
massing and composition (not just finish materials) of each adjacent
house. Varied designs shall not be repeated within a group of four (4)
houses in a row.

            ii.   Curvilinear streets shall be integrated into the block
design with radii to the centerline of the street in conformance with
City standards to minimize the risk of excessive speeding on long,
straight streets. Curvilinear is defined as streets with their center
lines offset by a minimum of five feet (5').

         C.   Private streets with gated entries shall provide a queuing
distance in front of the gate to accommodate a minimum of two (2)
vehicles. A call box shall be placed between opposing traffic lanes with
bollards or other compatibly designed call box protection. The Director
may require a greater distance for larger projects. In addition, a
turnaround shall be provided for vehicles denied access to the project.

         D.   All roads that cross drainage channels shall be built as a
dry crossing as required by the City Engineer.

         E.   All single-family residential projects shall provide one
(1) paved, all-weather path of vehicular access to the project site from
the existing City-maintained paved road system. All-weather access
includes two (2) lanes of travel a minimum of twenty-six feet (26') wide
and shall not be subject to 100-year storm event depths greater than
seven-tenths feet (0.7') deep.

         F.   All single-family residential projects shall provide
additional all-weather paths of vehicular travel to the project site
from the existing City-maintained paved road system, that does not cross
or coincide with the first paved all-weather path of vehicular travel,
in accordance with current San Bernardino County Fire Department Fire
Prevention Standards. All-weather access shall meet the requirements
described in division E. above.

      (4)   Landscaping

         A.   A residential subdivision's landscaping shall be used to
frame, soften, and embellish the quality of the residential environment,
to buffer units from noise or undesirable views, to break up large
expanses of parking lots, and to separate frontage roads within a
project from adjacent major streets. This shall be accomplished in
accordance with Chapter 17.60 (Landscaping/Water Conservation) and the
following:

            i.   All trees and shrubs shall be planted in non-uniform
clusters to achieve a more natural appearance.

            ii.   Landscaping along street frontages should coordinate
with adjacent properties to provide a consistent visual corridor.

            iii.   Landscaping shall be denser near entryways of
residences in order to define the entrance.

            iv.   A minimum of one (1) type of tree, two (2) types of
shrubs and two (2) types of non-living groundcover shall be provided for
all residential lots. All non-living groundcover shall be installed on a
landscape fabric or plastic that prohibits weed growth.

            v.   A minimum of two (2) textures, colors, or sizes of
groundcover is required in all new developments. This may be achieved
through utilizing rock and a few boulders, providing different colored
rock in different areas of landscaping, using different textures of rock
throughout the landscaping, or utilizing hardscape elements.

            vi.   Providing hedges or low decorative walls as well as
varied heights of trees and shrubs is strongly encouraged to provide
visual interest within the landscaping.

         B.   The plant palette for all front and street side yards of
developments shall be xeriscape or low water-use plantings. Landscape
designs shall have little to no turf areas per the City's
Landscaping/Water Conservation Ordinance.

         C.   Residential developments shall have a consistent theme
along continuous streets. This shall include the use of street trees
along all public and private interior streets, along perimeter roads,
and along adjacent Major Collectors and Arterials in compliance with
current City standards.

      (5)   Walls/Fences

         A.   Walls are required along all public rights-of-way
including the interior of a subdivision. These walls shall be designed
to complement the architectural design of the homes within the
neighborhood. Walls that face out to public rights-of-way shall have a
decorative treatment such as a stucco finish, split face block, or
slumpstone. Walls shall include additional decorative treatment such as
pilasters at regular intervals and caps.

         B.   Walls adjacent to streets shall not run in a continuous
plane for more than sixty feet (60') or the width of the adjoining
residential lot without incorporating at least two (2) of the following
options:

            i.   A minimum two-foot (2') change in plane for at least
ten feet (10').

            ii.   A minimum eighteen inch (18") raised planter for at
least ten feet (10').

            iii.   A minimum eighteen inch (18") change in height for at
least ten feet (10').

            iv.   Use of pilasters at sixty foot (60') intervals and at
changes in wall planes and height.

            v.   A section of open grillwork (wrought iron or similar
material excluding chain link) a minimum four feet (4') in height for at
least ten feet (10').

         C.   The return from the side fence/wall to the house that
separates the front yard from the back yard shall be a block wall
consistent with the requirements of division A. above and consist of
solid metal gates.

         D.   Solid fencing is required between individual houses in a
residential subdivision. These fences may be built of vinyl or similar
material and must be designed with finishing details and decorative
treatments to compliment the architectural design of the homes within
the neighborhood.

         E.   Walls along drainage channels, utility corridors, and open
space corridors may consist of either solid block wall or a combination
of a minimum of two feet (2') of solid wall with wrought iron or other
approved view fencing on top.

         F.   Chain link fencing shall not be permitted in any
single-family residential subdivision built after these standards are
adopted in accordance with section 17.10.120(f) of this Zoning Code.

   (c)   Architectural Standards

      (1)   Building Design - There is no specific architectural style
required for residential structures. In general, residential structures
should consider compatibility with surrounding character, including
building style, form, size, color, material, and roof line.

         A.   The design of houses shall be varied in tract developments
to create variety and interest by use of at least one (1) of the
following options:

            i.   Provide a significant difference in the massing,
orientation, and composition (not just finish materials and colors) for
each adjacent house.

            ii.   No elevation shall be repeated within a group of four
(4) houses in a row.

            iii.   Alternative garage orientations (front loading, side
loading, attached, detached, set closer to the street, set toward the
rear of the lot) shall be used on at least every fourth house.

         B.   If a side or rear elevation faces a street, it shall be
designed with the same care and attention to detail as the front
elevation.

         C.   Vary the housing product, floor plan, and elevation
designs per the following ratios:

 

  -------------------------- ----------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------
  Number of Dwelling Units   Minimum Number of Footprints              Minimum Number of Elevations per Footprint
  1 - 4                      2                                         1
  5 - 15                     2                                         2
  16 - 40                    3                                         3
  41 - 80                    4                                         3
  81 - 120                   5                                         4
  121 and up                 1 additional for each 40 units over 120   4
  -------------------------- ----------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------

 

         D.   Exterior elevations shall be articulated and detailed to
provide visual interest and scale by use of at least three (3) of the
following options:

            i.   Offset building planes a minimum of two feet (2').

            ii.   Provide recessed entries and windows.

            iii.   Include projecting or recessed balconies.

            iv.   Substantial roof overhangs with detailed rafter ends.

            v.   Design front porches a minimum of five feet (5') deep.

            vi.   Dormer windows.

            vii.   Stepping back the second story.

            viii.   Use of different building materials with varying
textures and colors.

         E.   Fully sloped roofs and horizontal roof articulation shall
be incorporated in building designs by use of one (1) of the following
options:

            i.   Offset roof planes by a minimum of two feet (2').

            ii.   Incorporate dormer windows.

            iii.   Include cross gables.

            iv.   Building materials.

               a.   All single-family residential units are required to
include tile roofing material.

               b.   Piecemeal embellishment and frequent changes in
materials shall be avoided.

               c.   Avoid material changes at the outside corners of
structures or where there is no change in the wall plane.

               d.   Design changes in materials shall occur at changes
in plane to ensure that materials appear substantial and integral to the
structure.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]

17.15.050   Multi-Family Residential Design Standards

   (a)   Purpose

      Multi-family housing design standards are necessary to improve and
maintain the quality of multi-family housing for the safety and benefit
of residents and the preservation of property values in the vicinity of
multi-family neighborhoods. The design review is intended to eliminate
undesirable design features and promote a pleasant residential
environment within the City of Adelanto.

   (b)   Site Planning

      The following standards apply to the internal organization of new
multi-family residential development (apartments, condominiums, and
townhouses). The intent of the standards is to ensure that the
relationships of units to each other and to other on-site uses are
functional, attractive, and create visual variety along the project's
streets.

      (1)   Site Character

         A.   Existing natural amenities (e.g., views, mature trees, and
topographic features) and other amenities (e.g., structures of
architectural significance and cultural resources) unique to the site
shall be preserved and incorporated into the project's design whenever
possible.

         B.   Grading shall direct and provide for an adequate flow of
surface runoff to catch basins while contouring the land to blend with
existing conditions at the boundaries of the site.

      (2)   Neighborhood Compatibility - New multi-family residential
development shall relate to adjacent single-family residential districts
by doing the following:

         A.   Stepping down the scale, height, and density of buildings
at the edges of the development when surrounding neighborhoods are of
lower density or smaller scale. Step the building down at the ends or
sides nearest the single-family unit to a height approximately equal to
that of the adjacent single-family residence (or of typical
single-family residences in the vicinity if adjacent to an undeveloped
single-family zoning district).

         B.   Incorporating architectural elements and materials that
are similar to those used in the neighborhood.

         C.   Front setbacks for new multi-family developments in
existing single-family neighborhoods shall be equal to or greater than
the average front setback for the two adjacent properties. If one (1) or
both of the adjacent properties are vacant, then the average front
setback shall be calculated on the next adjacent occupied properties.

         D.   By locating parking areas within the project interior or
at the side or back when necessary to achieve a "residential front yard"
appearance.

         E.   Landscaping shall be used to maximize the privacy of
adjacent single-family residences.

      (3)   Building Placement

         A.   Buildings shall be placed with varying setbacks and/or
orientation to the street and interior private drives to provide visual
interest.

         B.   Clustering of multi-family units within the project site
is encouraged.

         C.   Minimum distances between buildings shall be in compliance
with the requirements of the Uniform Building Code. Whenever possible,
buildings shall be oriented to avoid instances where living spaces of
one structure face the living spaces of another.

         D.   Buildings shall be oriented to create common open space
areas such as:

            i.   Courtyards.

            ii.   Open space nodes.

            iii.   Recreation areas.

   (c)   Parking and Circulation

         (1)   Parking Areas

         A.   Parking areas shall not be a dominant site feature and
shall be divided into a series of connected smaller lots that are laid
out in an efficient and aesthetic manner. This can be accomplished by
incorporating at least one (1) of the following parameters:

            i.   There should be no more than an average of ten (10)
spaces of uninterrupted parking, whether in garages, carports, or open
parking areas. Each ten (10) spaces should be separated from additional
spaces by a landscaped planter or island equal to the width of one (1)
parking stall.

            ii.   Parking areas should be separated from each other by
buildings or by landscaped buffers not less than thirty feet (30') wide.

         B.   Parking areas shall be treated as "landscape plazas" with
attention to landscape surfaces, softened edges, shade, and pedestrian
circulation. This can be accomplished by incorporating at least one (1)
of the following parameters:

            i.   Provide pedestrian connections to adjoining public
rights-of-way and commercial land uses when appropriate.

            ii.   Enhanced paving materials (not to exceed one- fourth
inch (1/4") deep), trellises, and landscaping to accentuate the
pedestrian circulation system.

            iii.   Landscaped planters in parking areas to align with
pedestrian access to buildings from a parking area. Planters should be
at least one (1) car space wide and include a walkway as well as a
vertical landscape or architectural element (e.g., a trellis or a tree).

         C.   In general, parking lots shall observe the following
standards:

            i.   Locate required resident parking spaces convenient to
the units they serve.

            ii.   The location of parking and drives shall minimize the
points of conflict between pedestrian and vehicular traffic.

      (2)   Access

         A.   Access drives shall be located at least two hundred feet
(200') apart and at least one hundred feet (100') from property lines
and street intersections unless an approved shared drive is provided or
the driveway location does not create a traffic hazard to adjacent
property.

         B.   Access drives shall be located off side streets whenever
possible. Access drives off Arterial and Major Collector streets are
subject to approval by the City Engineer.

         C.   Access drives on large residential projects (more than
fifty (50) units) shall include a minimum five foot (5') wide landscaped
median including curbs, color/textured paving, and other "gateway"
elements (e.g., lights, bollards, entry walls, etc.).

         D.   Gated entries shall provide a queuing distance in front of
the gate to accommodate a minimum of two (2) vehicles. A call box shall
be placed between opposing traffic lanes with bollards or other,
compatibly designed, call box protection. The director may require a
greater distance for larger projects. In addition, a turnaround shall be
provided for vehicles denied access to the project.

         E.   Projects with ten (10) or more units shall include
vehicular and pedestrian entry statements which shall be consistent with
the following:

            i.   Provide one (1) visually dominant entry to the
development which conveys a sense of arrival.

            ii.   Provide an open view into the development with
landscaping and project directories.

            iii.   Special attention shall be given to hardscape and
landscape treatments at the entry to enhance the overall image of the
development. An entry statement shall consist of at least two (2) of the
following:

               a.   Hardscape structure (trellis, decorative low garden
wall with berming, guardhouse, decorative gate).

               b.   Specimen landscaping (large, distinctive vegetation
or mature trees, either flowering or native trees, or twenty-four inch
(24") box trees).

               c.   Large boulder groupings.

               d.   Textured or stamped concrete.

               e.   Monument signage with accompanying landscape and
berming.

               f.   Other comparable installations.

      (3)   Carports and Garages

         A.   Where carports or garages are utilized, they shall follow
the same criteria for spatial arrangement as parking areas above.

         B.   Carports and garages shall be architecturally compatible
with the adjacent buildings. They shall be similar in materials, color,
structure, roofline, and detail to the principal buildings of a
development.

         C.   Carport support columns shall be set back a minimum of
three feet (3') from the carport face to increase maneuverability.

         D.   Carport and garage roofs visible from public streets shall
incorporate roof slope and materials to match adjacent buildings. Flat
roofs may be used in the interior of a project when not visible from
public streets.

         E.   Garages with parking aprons less than twenty feet (20') in
length shall have an automatic garage door opener.

         F.   Provide landscaping on exposed sides of carport and garage
structures.

         G.   Garage doors shall be made to appear to be set into rather
than flush with exterior walls.

   (d)   Landscaping

      (1)   A multi-family residential project's landscaping shall be
used to frame, soften, and embellish the quality of the residential
environment, to buffer units from noise or undesirable views, to break
up large expanses of parking, and to separate frontage roads within a
project from adjacent major streets. This shall be accomplished in
accordance with Chapter 17.60 (Landscaping/Water Conservation) and the
following:

         A.   All trees and shrubs shall be planted in non-uniform
clusters to achieve a more natural appearance.

         B.   Landscaping along street frontages should coordinate with
adjacent properties to provide a consistent visual corridor.

         C.   For projects less than one (1) acre, a minimum of two (2)
types of trees and two (2) types of shrubs, are required.

         D.   For projects one (1) acre to two and one-half (2.5) acres
in size, a minimum of two (2) types of trees and three (3) types of
shrubs are required.

         E.   For projects larger than two and one-half (2.5) acres in
size, a minimum of three (3) types of trees and four (4) types of shrubs
are required.

         F.   Providing hedges or low decorative walls as well as varied
heights of trees and shrubs is strongly encouraged to provide visual
interest within the landscaping.

      (2)   The plant palette for all developments shall be xeriscape or
low water-use plantings. Landscape designs shall have little to no turf
areas per the City's Landscaping/Water Conservation Ordinance.

      (3)   Residential developments shall have a consistent theme along
continuous streets. This shall include the use of street trees along all
perimeter roads and along adjacent Major Collectors and Arterials in
compliance with current city standards.

      (4)   Landscape planters a minimum of ten feet (10') in width
shall be provided adjacent to the front and street side yard property
line. This may include the landscaped area within the public
right-of-way.

      (5)   All required landscaped areas shall be a minimum of five
feet (5') in width.

      (6)   Trees within parking areas shall be planted at a total of
one (1) tree for every four (4) parking stalls. In addition, trees shall
be planted in areas of public view adjacent to and along structures at
an equivalent of one (1) tree per fifty (50) linear feet of building
which has public exposure.

      (7)   When using landscaping to screen adjacent single-family
residences, a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the trees used shall be
twenty-four inch (24") box size when installed.

      (8)   No landscaping shall block or obscure entry doors or windows
of individual units.

   (e)   Miscellaneous Subjects

      (1)   Solid waste and recyclable materials storage areas
requirements are specified in section 17.20.050(d) of this Zoning Code.

      (2)   Open Space

         A.   A minimum square footage of private open space (patio,
balcony, courtyard) shall be provided per unit in accordance with Table
20-2 of this Zoning Code.

         B.   A minimum square footage of common open space (recreation
amenities, play areas, etc.) shall be provided per unit in accordance
with Table 20-2 of this Zoning Code.

         C.   The design and orientation of open space shall be oriented
to take advantage of available sunlight and should be sheltered from the
noise and traffic of adjacent streets.

         D.   Common open spaces and recreation areas shall be located
in areas accessible to and visible by as many units as possible.

         E.   Private open spaces shall be contiguous to the units they
serve and screened to a minimum height of four feet (4') by use of at
least one (1) of the following:

            i.   Plant materials and low walls.

            ii.   When possible, use the adjacent structure to enclose
private open space.

            iii.   Screening should not be completely comprised of solid
materials. Screening above four feet (4') should provide a maximum of
sixty percent (60%) opaqueness.

      (3)   Screening of Equipment

         A.   All mechanical equipment mounted on the roof shall be
screened from view in compliance with Section 17.10.140 (Shielding of
Roof Appurtenances). All screening devices shall be architecturally
integrated and compatible with the architecture and color of the
adjacent buildings or sufficiently landscaped.

         B.   All mechanical equipment not mounted on the roof
(including utility meters) shall be located inside of a utility room or
closet within the building.

         C.   Television antennas shall be placed in attics or building
interiors. It is required that all units be pre-wired to accommodate
cable reception.

         D.   Solar panels shall be integrated into the roof design,
flush with the roof slope. Frames shall be colored to match roof colors.
Any support equipment shall be enclosed and screened from view.

         E.   When adding solar collectors to an existing building,
coordinate solar collectors with the building architecture to the
maximum extent possible. Coordinate any new structures not located on
the roof with the building architecture by using colors and materials
similar to those used in the existing building. Any support equipment
shall be enclosed and screened from view.

      (4)   Pedestrian Circulation/Pathways

         A.   In developments with two (2) or more buildings, pedestrian
paths shall be provided to connect buildings in the development with one
another, on-site amenities, and adjacent streets.

         B.   Paths shall be clearly defined with lighting, landscaping,
or contrasting paving materials.

      (5)   Lighting

         A.   All on-site lighting shall be stationary, directed away
from adjacent properties and public rights-of-way.

         B.   Lighting fixtures shall be of a type and shall be located
such that no light or reflected glare is directed offsite.

         C.   All garages, carports, walkways, and driveways shall be
lighted during the hours of darkness.

         D.   Use low-rise pedestrian scale lighting within common open
space areas. The maximum height should be fifteen feet (15').

      (6)   Mailboxes

         A.   Mailboxes shall be located close to the project entry near
recreational facilities. The architectural character of the mailbox
structure shall be the same in form, materials, and color as that of the
primary structures. Mailbox locations shall be approved by the U.S.
Postal Service.

         B.   Mailboxes shall either be located within a locked building
or in some way secured to prevent theft of mail.

      (7)   Laundry Facilities

         A.   If not provided in individual units, laundry facilities
shall be located in a central location to provide accessibility.

         B.   If not provided in individual units, laundry facilities
shall be provided in the ratio of one (1) washer/dryer per every ten
(10) units.

         C.   Laundry facilities, whether attached to the residential
structures or individual detached structures, shall be in the same
architectural form, materials, and color as that of the primary
structures.

      (8)   Gutters, Downspouts, and Roof Vents

         A.   Gutters and downspouts shall be concealed unless they are
designed as a continuous architectural feature. Gutters and downspouts
used as architectural features shall be colored to match fascia or
exterior wall material.

         B.   Roof vents shall be colored to match the roof materials or
the dominant trim color of the structure.

   (f)    Building Architecture

      (1)   General

         A.   No particular architectural style is required for
multi-family residential structures. Desert appropriate architectural
styles shall be used to blend the development into the natural desert
environment to the greatest extent possible. In selecting an
architectural style, compatibility with surrounding character, including
compatible building style, form, size, color, materials, and roofline
shall be considered.

         B.   Multi-family developments shall incorporate the following
design principles:

            i.   Building form, roofline, and primary materials shall
represent a common theme throughout the development.

            ii.   A similar architectural character shall be provided on
all sides of a building.

            iii.   Forms, colors, architectural details and landscape
materials shall be consistent throughout the development.

            iv.   Entries shall be integrated into the building
architecture. Upper decks, balconies, stair towers, utility closets, and
mechanical screening shall be integrated into the building architecture
rather than add-on elements to a finished facade or roof.

            v.   Interior and exterior storage areas shall be integrated
into the building design to make them compatible with the building
architecture.

         C.   Exterior elevations shall be appropriately articulated and
detailed on all four (4) sides to avoid flat, monotonous wall planes and
uninteresting barracks-like structures. This can be accomplished by
incorporating at least three (3) of the following design parameters:

            i.   Provide at least one (1) architectural projection not
less than two feet (2') from the wall plane and not less than eight feet
(8') wide. Projections should extend the full height of single-story
buildings, at least one-half (1/2) the height of a two-story building,
and two-thirds (2/3) the height of a three-story building. Architectural
projections shall comply with Table 10.1 (Maximum Permitted Projections
into Required Yard Areas) of the City of Adelanto Development Code.

            ii.   Provide architectural projections such as balconies,
porches, arcades, dormers, and cross gables.

            iii.   Recess entries and windows to reveal the thickness of
walls.

            iv.   Step back second and third stories.

            v.   Use different building materials with varying textures
and colors.

            vi.   Recess garages under units or provide open balconies
above.

            vii.   Use combinations of one-story, one-and-a-half story,
and two-story units to create variation and visual interest.

            viii.   Use vertical elements (e.g., towers) to accent
horizontal massing and provide visual interest.

         D.   When adjacent to a single-family residential development,
multi-family residential projects shall have a maximum of two (2)
stories.

         E.   Accessory structures such as laundry facilities,
recreation buildings, sales/lease offices, or temporary sales offices
within multi-family developments shall be consistent in architectural
design, form, colors, and materials with the residential structures.

      (2)   Building Materials

         A.   The building and its elements shall be unified in
textures, colors, and materials to provide an order and coherence within
the project.

         B.   The composition of materials shall avoid giving the
impression of thinness. Veneers should turn corners, avoiding exposed
edges.

         C.   The use of artificial materials (e.g., imitation brick,
imitation stone, and other simulated materials) is not allowed. When
used, brick, stone, and other facade treatments shall consist of the
real material.

         D.   Materials shall be very durable, require low maintenance,
and relate a sense of permanence.

         E.   Frequent changes in materials shall be avoided.

         F.   Columns, trellises, porches, colonnades, and similar
elements shall use materials and colors that are compatible with the
adjacent building.

         G.   The use of wood and chain link fencing along a project
boundary or adjacent to streets shall be prohibited.

      (3)   Roofs

         A.   Roofs shall reflect a residential appearance through pitch
and use of materials, by use of at least one (1) of the following design
parameters.

            i.   Hipped or gabled roofs covering the entire building are
preferable to mansard roofs and segments of pitched roofs applied at the
building's edge.

            ii.   Roof lines (i.e., ridges and plate heights) shall be
broken and varied within an overall horizontal context. The minimum
vertical offset should be two (2) feet.

            iii.   Use dormers and cross gables to break up large
unarticulated roof planes.

         B.   Roofs shall consist of cement tile, clay tile or other
architecturally compatible roofing material. Tile roofing materials
shall reflect the color of native earthen clay which was used in the
manufacturing process. Blue, green, and other artificially colored tiles
are not allowed.

      (4)   Stairs

         A.   Stairwells shall be designed to minimize aesthetic impact
to the greatest extent feasible.

         B.   For public safety purposes, opportunities for natural
surveillance shall be provided in and out of stairwells.

         C.   Stairwells shall be illuminated to minimize shadows and
facilitate overall vision, but should not be overly bright.

         D.   Prefabricated metal stairs shall not be allowed.

         E.   Stair railings shall be either solid or open balusters
made of concrete or ornamental ironwork.

         (5)   Color - The predominant color of structures shall be
muted tones that are found in the natural environment by use of at least
one (1) of the following:

         A.   Neutral or light-colored walls should be contrasted with a
darker, more intense trim color, while dark-colored walls should be
contrasted with light-colored accents and details.

         B.   Materials such as brick, stone, copper, etc., should be
left in their natural colors.

      (6)   Walls/Fences

         A.   Where a project abuts a street, open fencing material
(wrought iron or tubular steel) shall be used. A low masonry wall may be
integrated into the design at the ratio of two feet (2') of wall and the
remaining open fencing on top. In addition, pilasters of solid masonry
materials may be included into the design at regular intervals.

         B.   Where a project does not abut a street, or where it is
abutting single family residential units, a six foot (6') solid masonry
wall shall be required. These walls shall be designed using masonry
materials such as split face and slump stone, with colors that
complement the architectural design of adjacent buildings.

         C.   Chain link fencing is prohibited in all multi-family
residential developments.

         D.   All walls and fences shall be constructed of decorative
materials such as split face, slump stone block, or other similar
materials which complement the materials used on the buildings.
Decorative enhancements such as caps or pilasters shall be incorporated
into all walls and fences. Unadorned solid wood or cinder block is not
allowed.

         E.   Where any solid wall exceeds sixty feet (60') in length,
the wall shall be visibly articulated by pilasters or changes in the
wall plane such as insets for plantings.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]

17.15.060   Commercial Design Standards

   (a)   Purpose

      To assist the developer in understanding the City's goals and
objectives for high quality commercial development. The design review is
provided to:

      (1)   Improve the site planning and appearance of commercial
districts through the application of modern and creative solutions to
common and repeated design problems found throughout the City.

      (2)   Provide a clear and consistent set of design standards to
assist the development community in comprehending the City's intent in
regulating design quality and ensuring that the long-term goals of the
City are met.

      (3)   Create an identifiable community image through urban design
and planning excellence that will create a visually unified and coherent
community.

      (4)   Promote commercial development capable of strengthening the
local economy and enhancing the quality of life for Adelanto residents.

      (5)   Protect the property values of existing business areas from
inappropriately designed or scaled projects and enhance the investment
of residents and business owners.

      (6)   Encourage and promote designs which relate to and are
compatible with the region's desert environment.

   (b)   Site Planning

      (1)   Site Character

         A.   Natural amenities (views, mature trees, creeks, drainage
channels, riparian corridors, and topographic features) unique to the
site shall be preserved and incorporated into the project's design
whenever possible.

         B.   Structures that are historic or are otherwise distinctive
because of their ruralness, age, cultural significance, or unique
architectural style shall be preserved and incorporated into development
proposals.

         C.   Structures shall not face their back side or loading areas
onto existing or planned amenities (parks, open space, and water
features).

         D.   Frontage roads or drives shall be provided adjacent to
open space areas unless the commercial project is designed to provide
direct pedestrian access to the open space and the road or drive is not
otherwise necessary.

      (2)   Land Use Buffering

         A.   Buffers such as landscaping, earth berms, and decorative
architecturally treated walls, shall be used to define project
boundaries and minimize impacts on adjacent properties.

         B.   Noise, traffic, or odor-generating activities shall be
located adjacent to similar activities on adjacent properties whenever
possible.

         C.   Loading areas, access and circulation driveways, trash,
storage areas, and mechanical equipment related to commercial uses shall
be located as far as possible from adjacent residences.

         D.   When adjoining residential and commercial uses can
mutually benefit from connection rather than separation, appropriate
connective elements (e.g., walkways, common landscape areas, building
orientation, and unfenced property lines) shall be provided between the
uses.

         E.   Window orientation in nonresidential buildings shall
preclude a direct line of sight into adjacent residential units and
private open spaces within one hundred feet (100') of the property line.

         F.   When commercial buildings back up to open space areas of
multi-family residential projects, the rear setback area shall be
landscaped and combined with the residential open space where feasible.

         G.   Landscaping shall be required to screen parking lots and
large commercial building walls in order to provide a visual barrier
between commercial and residential uses.

      (3)   Building Placement

         A.   On multi-tenant commercial sites, buildings shall be
placed close to the street to create a more attractive streetscape and
minimize the visual impact of large areas of pavement and parking from
public streets.

         B.   Corner buildings shall provide a strong tie to the setback
lines of each street. The primary mass of the building shall not be
placed at an angle to the corner. This does not preclude angled or
sculpted building corners, or an open plaza at the corner.

         C.   Multiple buildings in a single project shall provide a
functional relationship with one another to achieve a "village" scale by
use of at least two (2) of the following:

            i.   Cluster buildings around open plaza areas, not parking
lots.

            ii.   Provide courtyards with landscaping and other
pedestrian amenities.

            iii.   Provide convenient pedestrian circulation between
buildings and between parking areas and building using enhanced paving
materials (no more than one-fourth inch (1/4") deep).

            iv.   Link buildings together visually using trellis
structures, arcades, and enhanced paving (no more than one-fourth inch
(1/4") deep).

            v.   Avoid dated L-shaped shopping centers with parking
located adjacent to the street.

         D.   Whenever possible, buildings shall have their entrances
oriented towards transit stops for convenient access.

         E.   Arrangement of structures, landscaping, and hardscape
shall create view corridors into projects while still establishing a
sense of arrival and place.

         F.   Encroachment onto utility or other public or private
easement is prohibited. Buildings shall be sited or arranged so as not
to encroach on any utility, public, or private easements.

         G.   Coordinated site design (including shared parking,
driveways and circulation, sign facilities, landscaped areas, and
garbage collection areas) shall be encouraged on adjacent parcels with
similar uses. Such coordination will typically involve mutual access
agreements over both properties.

      (4)   Trash/Loading/Storage Areas

         A.   Solid waste and recyclable materials storage areas shall
be enclosed and screened. Enclosures shall be constructed with masonry
block and finished using materials compatible with the surrounding
architecture. Gates shall be solid metal painted to match adjacent
buildings.

         B.   All trash, loading, and service areas shall be screened
from public rights-of-way and adjacent residential uses or districts
through a combination of landscaping and walls.

         C.   Trash areas shall incorporate roof structures to screen
the contents of the enclosure from view.

         D.   Loading facilities shall not be located at the front of
buildings where it is difficult to adequately screen them from view.
These facilities are more appropriate at the side or rear of the
building.

         E.   Screening for outdoor storage shall be a minimum of six
feet (6') and a maximum of eight feet (8') in height and shall consist
of masonry block or vinyl compatible with the surrounding architecture.
Chain link fencing with slats is not acceptable screening material.

      (5)   Utility and Mechanical Equipment

         A.   All mechanical equipment (e.g., compressors, air
conditioners, heating and ventilating equipment, chillers, stand pipes,
solar collectors, etc.) shall be concealed from view. Screening devices
shall be compatible with the architecture and color of the adjacent
buildings.

         B.   Mechanical equipment shall not be located on the roof of a
structure unless the equipment can be screened by building elements that
are designed for that purpose and that are an integral part of the
building design. Otherwise, all mechanical equipment shall be located in
equipment rooms within the structure.

         C.   Utility equipment (e.g., electric and gas meters,
electrical panels, and junction boxes) shall be located in utility rooms
within the structure.

   (c)   Parking and Circulation

      (1)   General

         A.   Parking lot spaces shall be designed with a clear
hierarchy of circulation: major access drives with no parking; major
circulation drives with little or no parking; and parking aisles for
direct access to parking spaces.

         B.   Parking lots shall be separated from buildings by a raised
walkway, landscape strip, or combination of the two (2) at least six
feet (6') wide, with a minimum four-foot (4') wide walkway. Mow strips
are not required in this situation. Situations where parking aisles or
spaces directly abut the building are prohibited.

         C.   No more than five percent (5%) of the required parking
shall be located in the rear service area of a project site.

         D.   Adequate visibility for vehicular and pedestrian traffic
shall be provided by clear sight triangles (as approved by the City
Engineer) at all ninety (90) degree and intersections of public
rights-of-way and private driveways.

         E.   All driveways and drive aisles within the development are
required by the San Bernardino County Fire Department to be a minimum of
twenty-six (26') feet wide for two (2) way traffic.

         F.   One-way driveways are not allowed except as part of
drive-thru facilities.

         G.   All parking spaces shall be clearly outlined on the
surface of the parking facility with painted white lines, stone, brick,
or textured or smooth concrete banding.

         H.   Parking within structures shall be considered whenever
possible in order to minimize asphalt pavement and maximize open areas.

      (2)   Project Entry

         A.   Parking lots with over one-hundred (100) parking stalls
shall provide a main entry drive from the public street for a minimum
distance of forty feet (40') and shall include a minimum four-foot (4')
wide sidewalk from the street to the first cross aisle on at least one
(1) side, and at least one (1) of the following:

            i.   A minimum seven-foot (7') wide landscaped center median
from the public street to the first cross aisle.

            ii.   Two (2) seven-foot (7') wide landscaped parkways
flanking the main entry drive. The parkway that abuts the sidewalk may
be reduced in width to four feet (4').

         B.   The first aisle juncture that intersects the main entry
drive shall be placed at least forty feet (40') back from the public
street right-of-way to provide adequate queuing distance off the street.

         C.   Entry drives shall be located a minimum of two hundred
feet (200') apart and at least one hundred feet (100') from any street
intersection property line to driveway centerline. Also, access drives
shall be located a minimum of twenty feet (20') from side properly lines
unless a shared drive is provided.

         D.   No entry points shall be located on a State Highway unless
approved in writing by the California Department of Transportation.

         E.   No entry points shall be located within six-hundred sixty
feet (660') of a State Highway, for any collector or arterial street
that intersects the highway, unless approved in writing by the
California Department of Transportation.

         F.   Bricks, pavers, or decorative stamped concrete (no more
than one-fourth inch (1/4') deep) shall be used to accent and highlight
street entries.

         G.   Project entry crosswalks shall be highlighted by bricks,
pavers, or decorative stamped concrete (no more than one-fourth inch
(1/4") deep) a minimum of fifteen feet (15') wide.

      (3)   Site Access

         A.   Developments with more than one hundred (100) parking
stalls that are located on an arterial or larger road shall coordinate
access points with median openings and/or existing driveways on the
opposite side of the roadway. Final locations shall be subject to review
and approval by the City.

         B.   Developments with more than two hundred (200) parking
stalls that are located on an arterial or larger street shall provide
deceleration lanes adjacent to their major entry per City standards.

         C.   Whenever possible, locate access drives on side streets to
maintain efficient traffic flow on major roadways.

         D.   All driveway radii shall be per City standards.

      (4)   Pedestrian Access

         A.   Drop-off points (i.e., wider aisles) shall be located near
major building entries and plaza areas for projects over fifty thousand
(50,000) square feet of building area.

         B.   Parking areas shall be designed so that pedestrians walk
parallel to moving cars in parking aisles. Minimize the need for the
pedestrian to cross parking aisles and landscape islands to reach
building entries.

         C.   Pedestrian walkways shall be delineated through the use of
textured paving and or concrete pavers (no more than one-fourth inch
(1/4") deep), landscaping, trellises, and other hardscape features.

         D.   Pedestrian circulation areas shall include architectural
and hardscape treatments that are at human scale and which create a
pleasant environment which invites people to linger in commercial areas.

         E.   Clearly defined pedestrian access shall be provided from
transit/bus stops to primary building entrances. In projects with more
than one hundred (100) parking stalls, pedestrian walkways shall be
provided through parking areas from transit/bus stops.

         F.   All projects shall provide a connection of the on-site
pedestrian circulation system to the off-site public sidewalk.

         G.   Meandering sidewalks shall be provided in all commercial
zoning districts when required by the Community Development Director.

         H.   Parking lots with over one hundred (100) stalls shall
provide a separate pedestrian walkway from the public sidewalk to the
on-site walkways. At a minimum, this main entry sidewalk shall:

            i.   Be located on one side of the main entry drive aisle.

            ii.   Be a minimum of four feet (4') wide.

            iii.   Be raised and protected from the drive aisle by a
six-inch (6") high curb.

            iv.   Be constructed of concrete or an interlocking paving
system. Asphalt sidewalks are not allowed.

            v.   Emphasis at pedestrian crossings of driveways and major
circulation aisles shall be accentuated at building entries by extending
the sidewalk to the back edge of the parking spaces.

      (5)   Bus Turnouts

         A.   Recommendations of the local transit district shall be
considered to ensure that provisions of adequate opportunities for
transit services and facilities such as turnouts and bus shelters.

         B.   Bus turnouts shall be designed in accordance with the City
Engineer's standards.

   (d)   Landscaping

      (1)   General

         A.   Landscaping, earth berms, decorative walls, and other
buffers shall be used to define project boundaries and to reduce impacts
on adjacent properties.

         B.   Landscaping shall be provided around the entire base of
structures to soften the edge between the parking lot and the structure,
except at entrances, exists, loading and service areas, and zero foot
side or rear setbacks. Landscaping shall be accented at the building
entrance.

         C.   Individual developments shall integrate on-site
landscaping with the streetscape landscaping in the project vicinity. A
continuation of streetscape grading, berms, and other landscape
treatments used by adjacent development shall be provided by new
development with similar site conditions.

         D.   Landscaping shall consist of native or drought-tolerant
plants capable of surviving the desert environment and climate with a
minimum of maintenance and supplemental watering. A list of plants
determined capable of meeting this criterion is contained in Chapter
17.60 (Landscaping and Water Conservation) of this Code.

         E.   Landscaping shall be used to break up uninterrupted
building mass, expanses of paved surfaces, frame views, and connect
development on adjacent pads.

         F.   Landscaping shall be provided in sufficient size and
quantity to adequately screen and soften the effect of new building
planes within the first year (typically a mix of twenty-four inch (24")
box and fifteen (15) gallon trees and five (5) gallon shrubs). Tree
clusters shall be used to reduce the linear appearance of building
planes and to soften the otherwise harsh appearance of the building
height and mass.

         G.   A minimum of one (1) tree planting shall be provided for
every thirty (30) linear feet of street and access drive frontage with
trees informally clustered and grouped. Gaps between plantings should
not exceed fifty feet (50').

      (2)   Parking Areas

         A.   The visual impact of parking areas shall be reduced by
landscaping, hedges, berming, and/or planted islands and fingers.

         B.   Low walls, berms, or landscaping between thirty-six inches
(36") and forty-two inches (42") in height shall be used to screen
automobile headlights in parking areas along major roads and across from
residential areas. Such landscape walls shall also be used as edge
treatments to define private space and act as a border between the
natural desert landscape or public domain and intense use areas.

         C.   Trees shall be distributed throughout parking areas in
islands and fingers between parking spaces to shade parking areas and
reduce the accumulation and radiation of heat from large paved areas. A
minimum of one (1) landscape island or finger containing a tree or trees
is required for every seven (7) parking spaces.

         D.   Concrete curbs shall be provided in parking areas to keep
vehicles from disturbing landscape areas.

         E.   Driveways perpendicular to streets shall have triangular
shaped extended landscape areas, with one (1) side running along the
driveway and one side running along the street right-of-way
corresponding with the required clear sight triangle discussed above.

      (3)   Hardscape Elements

         A.   Project entry statements consisting of hardscape elements
shall be provided with all commercial developments. The entry statement
may include but shall not be limited to:

            i.   Enhanced landscaping treatment.

            ii.   Enhanced monument signage.

            iii.   Boulder groupings.

            iv.   Decorative entryway.

            v.   Exposed aggregate or stamped concrete.

            vi.   Berm/low decorative wall.

         B.   Commercial projects larger than five (5) acres in size
shall include a hardscape element which creates a focus for the
development and creates a usable public open space amenity such as a
plaza or arbor facility. Appropriate hardscape elements shall include
but not be limited to plaza areas, arbor or patio facilities,
courtyards, atriums, and outdoor gathering and eating areas.

         C.   Hardscape shall relate individual buildings to an overall
theme or style. Materials used in the construction of street furniture
shall complement architectural materials used on adjacent buildings and
shall be of a common design. Trash receptacles and other minor details
shall also relate to the architectural style of the buildings.

         D.   Enhanced paving treatments shall be used for major entries
into the site and intersections to highlight key areas of the
streetscape. Such treatments shall be located at building entryways,
plaza areas and courtyards, pedestrian approaches to buildings, and
on-site crosswalks, driveways, and passenger drop-off areas.

         E.   Water features, such as fountains, sculptures, or enhanced
landscaping shall be used at plazas and courtyards to create focal
points along pedestrian areas and to enhance views from building
windows. All water features shall use recycled water and follow water
conservation precautions.

         F.   Materials used in the construction of street furniture
shall complement architectural materials used on adjacent buildings.
Plastic and materials such as fiberglass are not allowed.

      (4)   Major Intersections

         A.   Special landscaping shall be required adjacent to
intersections of designed major streets to reinforce the City image.

         B.   Accent vegetation shall be provided as identity plantings.

         C.   Native and desert appropriate trees shall be massed to
enhance these landscaping areas.

   (e)   Walls and Fences

      (1)   All on-site parking areas shall be screened from street view
by a landscape berm or decorative wall not less than three feet (3') in
height. The required height of the berm or wall shall be measured from
the highest finished grade of the adjacent on-site parking area or
adjacent finished grade of the street, whichever is greater.

      (2)   Screen wall design shall be decorative and incorporate the
same colors, materials, and/or accents as those used on project
buildings. Plain concrete block or painted block is not acceptable.

      (3)   Walls along a street frontage shall be staggered so that no
wall extends more than one-hundred feet (100') in a straight line. The
change in wall plane shall be a minimum of two feet (2'). Other means of
breaking up long, straight wall planes may be considered.

   (f)   Architectural Design

      (1)   Architectural Style - No specific architectural style or
design theme shall be required. A variety of architectural
characteristics shall be considered to add to the city's overall image.
However, while variety in design is generally encouraged, compatibility
of new projects with their surroundings shall also be a priority.

      (2)   Design Consistency

         A.   Designs shall demonstrate a consistent use of colors,
materials, and detailing throughout all elevations of the building.

         B.   Elevations that do not directly face a street shall not be
ignored or receive only minimal architectural treatment.

         C.   Each facade shall be designed for public view and shall be
appropriately landscaped in compliance with the landscaping standards in
Chapter 17.60 (Landscaping and Water Conservation).

      (3)   Form and Mass

         A.   Designs shall provide a sense of human scale and
proportion. Structures shall be designed to avoid a "box-like,"
impersonal appearance by use of at least two (2) of the following design
parameters:

            i.   Provide horizontal and vertical wall articulation
through the use of arcades, towers, wall recesses and projections, and
setting back upper floors. Facades should incorporate wall plane
projections and recesses having a depth of at least three percent (3%)
of the length of the facade and extending at least twenty percent (20%)
of the length of the facade.

            ii.   Provide architectural detail through the use of
columns, three-dimensional decorative cornice bands, recessed entries
and windows, and awnings and canopies.

            iii.   Provide full roofs with substantial overhangs.

            iv.   Incorporate decorative parapets where roof overhangs
are not provided.

            v.   Use different, but compatible, building materials with
varying textures and colors.

         B.   Entries shall be protected from the elements and shall
create a focus and sense of entry for the building by use of at least
two (2) of the following design parameters:

            i.   Provide wall recesses.

            ii.   Use roof overhangs.

            iii.   Incorporate canopies and awnings.

            iv.   Include arcades.

            v.   Install pedestrian-oriented signs.

      (4)   Roofs

         A.   Variations in roof lines shall be used to add interest to,
and reduce the massive scale of large commercial buildings. Roofs shall
incorporate at least two (2) of the following:

            i.   Parapets concealing flat roofs and rooftop equipment.
The average height of a parapet shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%)
of the height of the supporting wall and parapets shall not at any point
exceed one-third (1/3) of the height of the supporting wall. Parapets
shall incorporate a three-dimensional cornice.

            ii.   Overhanging eaves, extending at least three feet (3')
past the supporting walls.

            iii.   Sloping roofs that do not exceed the average height
of the supporting walls, with an average slope greater than or equal to
one foot (1') vertical rise for every three feet (3') of horizontal run
and less than or equal to one foot (1') vertical rise for every one foot
(1') of horizontal run.

            iv.   Three (3) or more roof slope planes.

         B.   Parapet walls shall be treated as an integral part of the
structure design.

         C.   Parapet walls should receive architectural detailing
consistent with the rest of the facade design and should not appear as
unrelated elements intended only to screen the roof behind them.

         D.   Where a mansard roof is incorporated into the parapet
design, views from above the structure should also be considered
relative to any visible structural support elements.

      (5)   Building Materials

         A.   False or decorative facade treatments, wherein one (1) or
more unrelated materials appear "stuck on" a building shall not be
allowed.

         B.   Fake products that attempt to imitate real materials
(e.g., wood, stone, brick, and etc.) are not allowed.

         C.   The composition of materials shall avoid giving the
impression of thinness and artificiality.

         D.   Veneers shall turn corners, avoiding exposed edges.

         E.   Stock, off-the-shelf metal buildings are prohibited as
primary structures.

      (6)   Colors

         A.   Facade colors shall be low reflectance, subtle, neutral,
or earth tone colors. The use of high-intensity colors, metallic colors,
black, or fluorescent colors is prohibited.

         B.   Building trim and accent areas may feature brighter
colors, including primary colors, but neon tubing shall not be an
acceptable feature for building trim or accent areas except for movie
theaters.

         C.   The transition between base and accent colors shall relate
to changes in building materials or the change of building surface
planes. Colors should not meet or change without some physical change or
definition to the surface plane.

      (7)   Additions to Existing Structures

         A.   The design of an addition to an existing structure shall
follow the general scale, proportion, massing, and detailing of the
original structure. The addition shall be harmonious with the original
structure, not a stark contrast.

         B.   Additions shall be an interpretation of the existing
building wherein the main characteristics of the existing structure are
incorporated into the design of the addition by use of at least two (2)
of the following:

            i.   Repeat window and door spacing.

            ii.   Use harmonizing colors and materials.

            iii.   Include similar, yet distinct, architectural details
(e.g., window/door trim, lighting fixtures, tile/brick decoration,
etc.).

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]

17.15.070   Industrial Design Standards

   (a)   Purpose

      To assist the developer in understanding the City's goals and
objectives for high quality industrial development. The design standards
are provided to:

      (1)   Improve the site planning and appearance of industrial
districts through the application of modern and creative solutions to
common and repeated design problems found throughout the City.

      (2)   Provide a clear and consistent set of design standards to
assist the development community in comprehending the City's intent in
regulating design quality and ensuring that the long-term goals of the
City are met.

      (3)   Create an identifiable community image through urban design
and planning excellence that will create a visually unified and coherent
community.

      (4)   Promote industrial development capable of strengthening the
local economy and enhancing the quality of life for Adelanto residents.

      (5)   Protect the property values of existing business areas from
inappropriately designed or scaled projects and enhance the investment
of residents and business owners.

      (6)   Encourage and promote designs which relate to and are
compatible with the region's desert environment.

   (b)   Site Design

      The design of new development shall be sensitive to the
characteristics of the existing surrounding development and shall take
into consideration the existing natural constraints on the site.

      (1)   New development shall enhance the character of its
surrounding area through quality architecture, and landscaping, and
appropriate site arrangement.

      (2)   New development in an area with an established character
shall be compatible with its surrounding development in intensity,
design, setback, building form, scale, material, color and landscaping
unless there are specific planning goals to change the character of an
area.

      (3)   Transition shall be developed between projects with
different uses and intensities on adjacent parcels to provide an
effective visual and functional shift. Transition may be created through
appropriate building setback, height and landscape buffers.

      (4)   New buildings shall present strong relationships to their
site and surrounding buildings on the same or adjacent parcels. Visual
and functional relationships between buildings and sites may be created
by building orientation and massing, and site organization.

      (5)   In multi-building complexes, a distinct visual link shall be
established among various buildings by using architectural or site
design elements such as courtyards, plazas, landscaping, and walkways to
unify the project.

      (6)   Project perimeter landscaping shall be integrated with the
landscaping of adjacent development for streetscape continuity.

      (7)   New sidewalks shall be integrated into the existing frontage
landscaping to maintain street continuity. Where new sidewalks are
required, mature trees and landscaping should be preserved as much as
possible by meandering sidewalks around them.

      (8)   Natural features on a site such as mature trees, creeks,
views, etc. should be preserved and incorporated into the site design of
the project.

      (9)   Project sites, excluding secured areas, should have
convenient and safe pedestrian and automobile access to adjacent streets
and service centers. On-site walkways should be linked to the public
sidewalk system outside the project for ease of pedestrian access.

      (10)   Site components such as structures, parking, driveways, and
out-door functions shall be arranged and located to emphasize the
aesthetically pleasant components of the site such as existing mature
trees and views, or superior architectural features, and disguise its
less attractive scenes such as service facilities, outside storage and
equipment areas, and trash enclosures through placement and design of
the structure and landscaping.

      (11)   Location of noise and odor generating functions on the site
shall not create a nuisance for the adjacent properties.

      (12)   When located adjacent to residential uses, all service
areas such as loading, trash enclosures, outside storage, and ground and
roof equipment shall be located away, or at a minimum, totally screened
from residential uses.

      (13)   The on-site walkway system shall link public outdoor
activity areas to each other as well as to the building(s).

      (14)   Every project site shall be designed for maximum utility of
open space for ventilation, sunlight, recreation and views for both new
and existing buildings.

   (c)   Building Design

      (1)   Open space areas may be incorporated as a part of focal
points.

      (2)   Incorporating benches, artwork, landscaping, water and
hardscape features into open space areas are encouraged.

      (3)   Convenient employee access to the nearby public parks and
trail systems should be provided when feasible.

      (4)   The scale, character and architectural design of new
development shall be compatible with and shall enhance surrounding
development.

      (5)   Public entrances and primary building elevations should face
public streets.

      (6)   Adjacent buildings on the same or separate parcels shall be
compatible in height and scale. If different scale is required for
functional reasons, adequate transition shall be provided between the
buildings.

      (7)   Whenever adjacent to residential uses, floors above the
first level shall be designed and windows located to provide maximum
privacy for the residences.

      (8)   Front facades of large buildings visible from a public
street shall include architectural features such as reveals, windows and
openings, expansion joints, changes in color, texture, and material to
add interest to the building elevation. Exceptions may be permitted only
where a specific architectural style offers other types of facade
articulations, as determined by the planning staff.

      (9)   Setback of new buildings shall compliment the setback
pattern in the area.

      (10)   New buildings shall maintain diversity and individuality in
style while improving the aesthetic character of their surrounding area.

      (11)   In multi-building complexes, a comprehensive architectural
concept shall be developed and maintained.

      (12)   Various site components should be unified through the use
of similar design, material and colors.

      (13)   New buildings shall have three (3) distinct components:
base; middle; and top. Define each component by horizontal and/or
vertical articulation. Facade articulation may consist of changes in the
wall plane, use of openings and projections, and material and color
variations. Exceptions may be permitted only where a specific
architectural style offers other types of building form and facade
articulation, as determined by the planning staff.

      (14)   Where function necessitates a basic, box-like building
form, exterior articulation such as change in color, material, or plane
shall be introduced on an outer decorative shell encompassing facades
which are visible from public streets. Less architecturally interesting
facades of buildings shall be substantially setback and screened from
public view by mature, dense landscaping as an alternative to furnishing
quality architecture. Landscaping size and location shall be determined
on a site-by-site basis and may exceed the minimum required in the City
Code.

      (15)   Main entrances to the buildings shall be well defined.

      (16)   New buildings shall have at least one (1) major focal point
and minor focal points. Focal points could be achieved through
horizontal and vertical lines, change in material, change in color,
change in the form and shape of a portion of the building, etc.
Combining the main entrances and the focal points is encouraged.

      (17)   Service doors shall be recessed and integrated into the
overall design of the building.

      (18)   The design of accessory buildings such as security kiosks,
maintenance and hazardous material buildings, and outdoor equipment
enclosures shall be incorporated into and be compatible in design
concept with the overall design of the project and the main buildings on
the site.

      (19)   With the exception of security kiosks, accessory buildings
shall be located outside of the front setback area. Front setback area
is defined as the area between the main building and public
right-of-way.

      (20)   Temporary buildings such as trailers should not be visible
from adjoining public streets. Temporary trailers shall be skirted with
similar material and color as the trailers.

      (21)   In new buildings, long horizontal roof lines shall be
broken up by providing articulations in the facade of buildings, change
in the height of portions of roofs, or change in color, material, forms,
etc. Exceptions may be permitted only where a specific architectural
style offers other types of roof forms and roof articulation, as
determined by the planning staff.

      (22)   Roofs shall be an integral part of the building design.
Proposed parapets and roof screens shall be integrated into the roof
design. The material and color of roof screens shall appear identical to
those in the roof or building.

      (23)   Equipment wells are encouraged for sloped roofs.

      (24)   Roof style in new buildings or additions shall be
compatible with the existing roof designs on the same site.

      (25)   Depending on architectural style, industrial buildings
(including manufacturing) are encouraged to use decorative roof
elements, such as projecting cornices, to enhance roof edges.

      (26)   A comprehensive material and color scheme shall be
developed for each site. Material and color variations in multi-building
complexes shall be complementary and compatible among structures.

      (27)   Large expanses of smooth material such as concrete shall be
broken up with expansion joints, reveals, or changes in texture and
color.

      (28)   Large expanses of highly reflective surface and mirror
glass exterior walls shall be avoided to prevent heat and glare impacts
on the adjacent public streets and properties.

      (29)   Exterior material and paint shall be durable and high
quality to prevent degradation and for ease of maintenance.

      (30)   Bright, contrasting colors shall be used for trims and
accents only.

      (31)   The color and material of building additions shall be
coordinated with those, of the principal buildings.

      (32)   Material and colors for wall and ground signs shall be
compatible with the principal buildings on the site.

      (33)   High quality metal may be used as exterior siding or in
large expanses only if approved by planning staff. It may be used for
minor architectural features and trims.

   (d)   Parking and Circulation

      (1)   The design of parking and circulation in industrial areas
shall provide maximum vehicle and pedestrian safety and shall be
sensitive to the surrounding non-industrial uses.

      (2)   To avoid large expanses of paved areas and to provide easy
accessibility to buildings, large parking lots should be divided into
smaller parking areas and dispersed around the site.

      (3)   Where large parking lots are needed, adequate landscaped
pockets shall be integrated into parking areas.

      (4)   Pedestrian and automobile traffic paths shall be separated
and conflict areas shall be minimized.

      (5)   Landscape buffers shall always be provided between parking
lots and public streets, and parking areas and buildings.

      (6)   Bicycle lockers and/or racks shall be located near building
entrances.

      (7)   Security kiosks and gates shall be located to allow queuing
for at least three (3) cars.

      (8)   Whenever security gates are provided, sufficient parking
should be provided outside of the gate area for visitors.

      (9)   Shared driveway access between adjoining properties is
encouraged.

      (10)   Parking lots shall have adequate directional signs for
visitors, delivery vehicles and employees.

      (11)   Large parking structures should be located away from
adjacent single-family residences.

      (12)   Landscaping, horizontal, and vertical articulations shall
be incorporated into the design of parking structures to reduce the bulk
of the structures.

      (13)   Exterior design of parking structures shall maintain
similar architectural elements as those on principal buildings on the
site to provide architectural harmony.

   (e)   Landscaping

      (1)   Landscaping shall be designed to enhance the overall
aesthetic quality of each site. Landscape material shall be drought
resistant.

      (2)   Landscape design shall follow an overall component together.

      (3)   All areas not in use by structures, driveways, and parking
spaces shall be properly landscaped.

      (4)   Landscaping shall consist of live plant materials. Rock and
gravel may be incorporated into the landscaping to enhance the design
but shall not replace live material.

      (5)   Landscape design and material shall adhere to the City's
water wise standards.

      (6)   Walls and fences shall be integrated into landscape design.

      (7)   When appropriate, landscaping shall be used to enhance focal
points, artwork, and visible areas.

      (8)   Site furniture and fixtures such as planters, light poles,
tree grates, newspaper racks, benches, transit shelters, mail boxes,
etc. shall be incorporated into the design landscape.

      (9)   Site furniture and light fixtures shall follow the same
design concept as the major structures on the site.

      (10)   Future phases of a project site already cleared and graded
shall be adequately treated (e.g. hydro mulch) to prevent erosion and
reduce aesthetic impacts.

      (11)   Sites adjacent to creeks and canals shall give special
attention to landscape, fence, and wall design in order to enhance
natural features or minimize development impacts.

      (12)   A minimum of a fifteen foot (15') wide landscape strip
shall be provided along all public street frontages of projects.

      (13)   To provide a visual transition between railroad tracks and
industrial buildings, a minimum ten foot (10') wide landscaping strip
shall be provided along the frontage on railroad tracks.

      (14)   When industrial buildings are located adjacent to
residential uses, a minimum ten foot (10') wide landscape strip with a
minimum eight foot (8') high masonry wall shall be provided.

      (15)   A minimum four foot (4') wide landscape strip shall be
provided along the sides and rear property line of all industrial sites.

      (16)   In designing the perimeter landscaping, street trees and
sidewalks shall be taken into consideration and incorporated into the
design.

      (17)   A combination of trees, shrubs and ground cover shall be
used between the buildings and public right-of-way. Water wise ground
covers are highly encouraged in lieu of grass. Annuals or other
non-drought tolerant plant material shall be used minimally and shall be
used in highly visible areas.

      (18)   Street trees shall be combined with onsite trees to provide
a double row of trees where possible.

      (19)   When perimeter landscaping is used to screen a development,
fences and berms shall be combined to reduce the apparent height of
fencing that is needed.

      (20)   Internal landscape areas should be clustered to provide
maximum open space for the site.

      (21)   In multi-building complexes, internal landscape areas shall
be designed to connect the buildings together and to take maximum
advantage of landscaping by providing outdoor dining and plazas between
buildings.

      (22)   Landscape should be integrated with hardscape such as
textured paving, water fountains, trellises and walkways or art work to
enhance the overall design of the site.

      (23)   Landscaping shall be adequately distributed throughout
parking lots to reduce the effect of heat and glare from pavement.

      (24)   When parking lots are adjacent to public rights-of-way,
parking shall be screened by combining berms, thirty-six to forty-two
foot (36'-42') walls, shrubs and trees.

      (25)   When landscape pockets are provided between parking spaces
facing each other, the width of the islands shall be a minimum of six
feet (6'). Landscaped pockets shall also be provided for every seven (7)
parking spaces and at the end of each row of parking spaces.

      (26)   When tree wells are provided, the wells shall be a minimum
of five feet (5') square. Interlocking pavement is encouraged around
tree wells.

      (27)   When selecting landscape material for parking lots, trees
with deep roots shall be selected to avoid damaging the pavement.

      (28)   Buildings shall be separated from parking areas by
landscaping and walkways.

      (29)   Maximum landscaping is encouraged in parking areas,
however, the Municipal Code allows for two foot (2') overhang for
standard spaces into internal landscape areas over six feet (6') wide or
perimeter landscaped area over four feet (4') wide.

      (30)   Walkways and paths shall be provided in parking lots and
provide a safe pedestrian access to buildings.

      (31)   Separate all parking and landscape areas by a six inch (6")
wide, poured in place concrete curbs.

      (32)   Different color or textured material shall be used to
define primary pedestrian access ways on site.

      (33)   Wherever chain linked or cyclone fences are used for
security purposes or for screening areas from public view, landscaping
shall be provided to screen the fence.

      (34)   All fences shall be made of durable and weather resistant
materials.

      (35)   Fences and walls used for noise control shall be made of
material most suited for noise reduction, and which minimize reflective
sound.

      (36)   For non-industrial uses in industrial areas such as retail
uses, fences other than cyclone or chain link fences shall be used.

   (f)   Mechanical Equipment

      (1)   Mechanical equipment shall not be located in the front
setbacks between building and public rights-of-way.

      (2)   Roof equipment shall be fully screened by parapets, roof
screens or equipment wells.

      (3)   Wherever possible, roof equipment shall be clustered and
included in one (1) screen. New buildings and new additions shall plan
for roof equipment screens and include them in the design of the
building.

   (g)   Loading

      (1)   Loading areas shall be separated from pedestrian and
automobile traffic.

      (2)   Loading areas shall not be immediately adjacent to
residential uses or visible from public rights-of-way. Loading docks
shall be screened from residential uses by a minimum eight foot (8')
high masonry wall with ten foot (10') wide landscaped strip.

      (3)   Loading door design shall be integrated into the design of
the building. High quality material and non-bright colors shall be used
for loading doors.

      (4)   In multi building complexes, loading docks shall be either
internalized or located in the rear of the complex in a service yard.

      (5)   All outdoor storage and loading areas shall be located in
the rear of sites and screened from view by solid walls and landscaping.

   (h)   Lighting

      (1)   Exterior light fixture design shall be compatible with the
design and the use of the principal structure on the site.

      (2)   Exterior light fixtures shall be incorporated into the
building design and landscape scheme of the development.

      (3)   Height of the light poles shall be appropriate for the
project and the surrounding environment. Height of poles shall not
exceed the height of the main building. When adjacent to residential
uses, height of poles along perimeter of site adjacent to residences
shall not exceed eight feet (8'). Light fixtures shall be equipped with
appropriate reflectors and shielded to prevent illumination of the
adjacent residences.

      (4)   All exterior light bulbs shall be energy efficient type
(high pressure sodium vapor or equivalent).

      (5)   Wall packs shall not be located above the parapet.

      (6)   All exterior lights shall be equipped with photo cells,

   (i)   Trash Enclosures

      (1)   Trash enclosures shall be located so they are not visible
from public rights-of-way and are easily accessible by collection
trucks.

      (2)   The design of the trash enclosures shall be compatible with
the design of main buildings on site.

      (3)   All trash enclosures shall be constructed in accordance with
Section 17.20.050(d)(3) of this code.

   (j)   Corporate and Professional Offices

      (1)   Corporate and professional office buildings shall have the
highest quality architecture and be oriented toward streets.

      (2)   For office buildings, a combination of hardscape such as
textured paving and water fountains and landscaping shall be used to
provide strong emphasis to focal points and entrances to the buildings.

      (3)   In multi-building complexes, buildings housing corporate
offices should be most visible from public rights-of-way and should be
used as a focal point in the development.

      (4)   When there are two (2) or more buildings located on-site,
buildings should be oriented toward public streets and provide view
corridors into the project site. View corridors may be provided by
controlling the spacing and angles of buildings on the site and by
providing vistas and plazas.

      (5)   Building facades shall be lively with front entries facing
public streets.

      (6)   The site boundaries and main entrances shall be defined by
both landscaping and decorative paving.

      (7)   Consider energy efficiency in setting of buildings.
Buildings should be oriented and landscape material should be selected
to provide maximum energy efficiency for the buildings. For example
deciduous trees should be planted on the south side of buildings to
shade the buildings in the summer and allow sun inside during winter
days.

   (k)   Warehouses

      (1)   Warehouse buildings shall be designed and oriented to locate
the shorter width of the building toward the public rights-of-way.

      (2)   Office portion of warehouse uses shall be located in the
front portion of buildings.

      (3)   Portions of buildings visible from public rights-of-way
shall be architecturally treated to break up the box like look of
buildings.

      (4)   Self storage facilities in industrial areas shall be
designed so buildings are located around the perimeter of the site
providing court yards in the center.

      (5)   Office use and manager residences, when provided, shall be
located in the front of the sites.

   (l)   Industrial Parks

      (1)   A comprehensive master plan should be prepared for each
project to insure design harmony. Master plans should include
arrangement; orientation; location; approximate size; and the overall
architectural design of structures, landscape scheme, circulation
patterns, and out-door facilities.

      (2)   Focal points and public site entrances should receive
special landscape or architectural treatment to enhance the streetscape.

      (3)   Over-sized or bulky structures should be located away from
public streets as much as possible to avoid corridor effect along public
streets.

      (4)   In the absence of transitional elements due to functional
constraints, adjacent structures of substantially different scales
visible from public streets should locate the smaller structures in the
front with larger buildings behind them.

   (m)   Other

      (1)   Customer oriented businesses requiring visibility shall
provide adequate building articulation and landscaping treatment of
focal points in new projects.

      (2)   Exterior remodeling of older industrial buildings being
occupied by new tenants is strongly encouraged.

      (3)   Parking and service needs shall be a primary concern in full
or partial conversion of larger industrial buildings for use by several
tenants. Over-head doors and loading activities should not be visible
from public streets. Consider location of loading areas in the division
of internal building spaces.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]

CHAPTER 17.20
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS

   17.20.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.20.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Conditional Uses, and
Temporary Uses

   17.20.030   Development Standards

   17.20.040   Minimum Residential Design Standards

   17.20.050   Attached Single-Family and Multi-Family Housing -
Additional Standards

   17.20.060   Mobilehome Parks

   17.20.070   Residential Condominium Conversions

   17.20.080   Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling
Units

   17.20.090   Outdoor Storage

   17.20.100   Transitional and Supportive Housing

   17.20.110   Emergency Shelters

17.20.010 Intent and Purpose

   The intent of this Chapter is to create, preserve, and enhance
residential areas for a wide range of housing types and lifestyles.
These regulations are directed toward encouraging quality development
and integrated, attractive, residential neighborhoods. Toward this end,
eleven (11) residential districts are established, which includes the
Mixed Use (MU) discussed in Chapter 17.50 and Airport Park (AP)
discussed in Chapter 17.22. The residential districts also include
Desert Living 2.5 (DL-2.5), Desert Living 5 (DL-5), Desert Living 9
(DL-9), Single Family Residential (R1-.5), Single Family Residential
(R1), Single Family Residential (R-S5), Medium Density Residential
(R3-8), Medium Density Residential (R-M12), High Density Residential
(R3-30). For each district, the City has established a density limit,
measured in gross acres. No entitlement for the maximum allowable
density is granted in this Zoning Code. The actual density achieved on a
development site will be based upon factors to include, but not be
limited to, topography, access, availability of utilities and other
infrastructure, proximity to sensitive environmental resources,
availability of public services, viewshed considerations, etc.

   The following residential land use districts are established in
Adelanto:

   (a)   Desert Living (DL-2.5, DL-5, and DL-9)

      The Desert Living (DL) zone district provides for the preservation
of large lot residential uses. The minimum lot size is 2.5 acres. DL-2.5
permits a parcel minimum of 2.5 acres, DL-5 permits a parcel minimum of
5 acres and DL-9 permits a parcel minimum of 9 acres. In addition to the
primary residential use, accessory uses include equestrian facilities,
agricultural uses, and the raising of small animals. Both public and
private stables, kennels, and related uses are allowed with a
Conditional Use Permit if approved by the Planning Commission. Minimum
lot sizes in this zoning district may be increased depending on terrain,
availability of services, or other factors; if modified, the minimum lot
size shall be shown on the Zoning Map.

   (b)   Single Family Residential (R1-.5)

      The Single Family Residential (R1-.5) zone district is a
single-family zone which permits residential development on very large
lots, with a minimum lot size of one half (1/20) acre [maximum density
two (2) units per gross acre]. Minimum lot sizes in this zoning district
may be increased depending on terrain, availability of services, or
other factors; if modified, the minimum lot size shall be shown on the
Zoning Map.

   (c)   Single Family Residential (R1)

      The Single Family Residential (R1) zone district is a
single-family zone which permits detached residences at a density of up
to four (4) units per gross acre. Minimum lot size is 7,200 square feet.
Development at this density requires full urban levels of service and
public improvements.

   (d)   Single Family Residential (R-S5)

      The Single Family Residential (R-S5) zone district is a
single-family zone which permits detached residences at a density of up
to five (5) units per gross acre. Minimum lot size is 5,000 square feet.
Development at this density requires full urban levels of service and
public improvements.

   (e)   Medium Density Residential (R3-8)

      The Medium Density Residential (R3-8) zone district permits a
variety of residential development types, including single-family
attached townhouses, two-story townhouses, condominiums, and low-density
garden apartments. Densities may range up to eight (8) units per gross
acre.

   (f)   Medium Density Residential (R-M12)

      The Medium Density Residential (R-M12) zone district permits a
variety of residential development types, including single-family
attached townhouses, two-story townhouses, condominiums, and low-density
garden apartments. Densities may range up to twelve (12) units per gross
acre.

   (g)   High Density Residential (R3-30)

      The High Density Residential (R3-30) zone district permits higher
density residential developments that may include but is not limited to
condominiums, apartments, and multi-story stacked flats. This district
is intended to be located near commercial and/or services areas and
transportation corridors, in order to encourage pedestrian circulation
and alternate modes of travel to reduce vehicle trips. The allowable
density is thirty (30) units per gross acre.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08;
Ord. No. 511, Exhibit A, 3/28/12; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord.
No. 528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]

17.20.020 Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Conditional Uses, and
Temporary Uses

   (a)   Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zone District of this Zoning
Code indicates the uses permitted in the residential zone districts.
Residential uses represent the primary permitted uses, although other
uses are allowed as accessory, conditionally permitted, and temporary
uses, as indicated in Appendix A.

   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the
review requirements and conditions contained in Chapter 17.130
(Conditional Use Permits) of this Zoning Code. Temporary uses are
subject to the review requirements and conditions contained in Chapter
17.155 (Temporary Use Permit). Also, certain other uses such as churches
may be subject to Special Use Standards outlined in Chapter 17.80.

   (c)   A Second Unit is permitted as an accessory use pursuant to
Subsection 17.20.080.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08;
Ord. No. 511, Exhibit A, 3/28/12; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord.
No. 528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]

17.20.030 Development Standards

   Table 20-1 and 20-1a indicates the development standards for all
residential zone districts.

TABLE 20-1
RESIDENTIAL ZONE DISTRICTS - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Zoning Districts

Development Standard

DL-9

DL-2.5/ & DL-5

R1-.5

R1

R-S5

R3-8

R-M12

R3-30

Zoning Districts

Development Standard

DL-9

DL-2.5/ & DL-5

R1-.5

R1

R-S5

R3-8

R-M12

R3-30

A.   Minimum Lot Size (a)

9.0 ac

2.5ac/5ac

20,000 sf

7,200 sf

5,000 sf

7,200 sf

3,500 sf

1.0 ac

B.   Minimum Lot Width

150 ft.

150 ft.

60 ft.

60 ft.

50 ft.

60 ft.

35 ft.

150 ft.

C.   Minimum Lot Depth

200 ft.

150 ft.

100 ft.

100 ft.

100 ft.

100 ft.

100 ft.

200 ft.

D.   Maximum Lot Coverage by: Buildings

5%

10%

20%

40%

40%

60%

60%

60%

E.   Maximum Coverage In Front Yard by Impervious Surfaces

10%

20%

50%

50%

50%

50%

50%

50%

F.   Maximum Density

1 du/

9.0 ac

1 du/2.5 ac

1 du/5 ac

2 du/ac

4 du/ac

5 du/ac

8 du/ac

12 du/ac

30 du/ac

G.   Maximum Building Height (b) (h)

35 ft.

(2 stories)

35 ft.

(2 stories)

35 ft.

(2 stories)

35 ft.

(2 stories)

35 ft.

(2 stories)

35 ft.

(2 stories)

35 ft.

(2 stories)

40 ft.(e)

H.   Minimum Front Yard Setback (c)

20 ft.

20 ft.

20 ft.

20 ft.

20 ft.

20 ft.

20 ft.

20 ft.(f)

I.   Minimum Side Yard Setback

5 ft. &

10ft.(d)

5 ft. &

10 ft.(d)

5 ft. &

10 ft.(d)

5 ft. &

10 ft.(d)

5 ft. &

10 ft.(d)

5 ft. &

10 ft.(d)

5 ft. &

10 ft.(d)

10 ft. (f)(g)

J.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback

25 ft.

25 ft.

15 ft.

15 ft.

15 ft.

10 ft.

10 ft.

10 ft. (f)(g)

K.   Minimum Usable Private Open Space

N/A

N/A

N/A

2,000 sf/unit

2,000 sf/unit

150 sf/unit

150 sf/unit

N/A

 

Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft = feet; ac = acre; du = dwelling
unit; N/A = not applicable

   Notes:

   (a)   See Section 17.20.040(a) for further requirements.

   (b)   Exempt antennas as defined in this Zoning Code are exempt from
height requirements.

   (c)   “Average setback” shall be measured for each side of each block
of a street, or for all the homes on a cul-de-sac. No two (2) adjacent
structures or garages may have the same setback. Changes in setback of
adjacent structures or garages must be at least two (2) feet.

   (d)   Ten feet (10') shall be on street side where applicable,
otherwise driveway side is preferred.

   (e)   Within one hundred (100) feet of a single-family detached
residential zone, buildings shall not be more than two (2) stories and
not more than thirty-five (35) feet.

   (f)   Driveways and parking areas parallel to the streets or
single-family residential zones are allowed within ten (10) feet of the
street or single-family residential zone, with a hedge and landscaping,
provided pursuant to Section 17.60 and 17.20.050(f).

   (g)   Where adjacent to a single-family detached residential zone,
minimum street setbacks shall be twenty (20) feet, or the same as the
adjacent residential structures, whichever is less.

   (h)   Architectural elements for Churches, such as steeples, may
exceed the maximum height and shall not exceed seventy-five (75) feet.

TABLE 20-1a
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES SETBACKS

 

Zoning Districts

Development Standard

DL-9

DL-2.5/ & DL-5

R1-.5

R1

R3-8

R-S5

R-M12

R3-30

A. Maximum Building Height (a)

15 ft.

15 ft.

15 ft.

15 ft.

15 ft.

15 ft.

15 ft.

15 ft.

B. Minimum Side Setback (b)

5 ft.

5 ft.

5 ft.

5 ft.

5 ft.

5 ft.

5 ft.

0 ft./10 ft. adjacent to street or single-family residential

C. Minimum Rear Setback

25 ft.

25 ft.

5 ft.

15 ft.

10 ft.

15 ft.

10ft.

0 ft./10 ft. adjacent to street or single-family residential

D. Minimum Distance Between Buildings

10 ft.

10 ft.

10 ft.

10 ft.

10 ft.(c)

10 ft.

10 ft.(c)

10 ft.(c)

 

   Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft = feet; ac = acre; du = dwelling
unit; N/A = not applicable

   Notes:

   (a)   Additional height may be allowable provided a two (2) foot
additional setback is provided for each one (1) foot of increased
height. A maximum overall height of twenty-five (25) feet is permitted
for an accessory structure.

   (b)   The minimum street side setback is ten (10) feet. Residential
accessory structures are not allowed in the front yard setback. In the
R3-30 Zoning District, where adjacent to a single-family detached
residential zone, minimum street setbacks shall be twenty (20) feet, or
the same as the adjacent residential structures, whichever is less.

   (c)   The minimum distance for primary buildings within multi-family
developments see Table 20-4.

   (d)   Residential accessory structures less than one hundred twenty
(120) square feet in area shall be no closer than five (5) feet to an
interior side or rear property line.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08;
Ord. No. 511, Exhibit A, 3/28/12; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord.
No. 528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]

17.20.040 Minimum Residential Design Standards

   The following minimum standards shall apply to all residential
construction projects, including manufactured housing. Additional design
requirements can be found in Chapter 17.15 Design Standards of this
Zoning Code.

   (a)   Dwelling units in the DL-9, DL-2.5/5, R1-.5, R1, R3-8, RS-5 and
RM-12 districts shall have a minimum gross floor area of seven hundred
fifty (750) square feet and dwelling units in the R3-30 district shall
have a minimum gross floor area of six hundred (600) square feet. The
minimum dwelling unit width and depth shall be twenty (20) feet measured
from the exterior of the structure and excluding garages, porches,
patios, eaves, cabanas, and bay windows.

   (b)   Siding material shall consist of stucco, wood, brick, stone, or
decorative concrete block. Synthetic materials of a similar appearance
and equivalent durability shall be permitted. Exterior siding shall
extend to a point at or near grade. However, if an approved solid wood,
metal, concrete, or masonry perimeter foundation is used, the siding
need not extend below the top of the foundation.

   (c)   All single-family residential units are required to include
tile roofing material.

   (d)   Utility hookups and an area shall be provided to accommodate
installation of a clothes washer and dryer. The hookups and area shall
be provided within the primary structure or within an enclosed accessory
structure.

   (e)   Areas for trash receptacles and recycling containers shall be
provided as required by the City of Adelanto.

   (f)   Mobile homes or manufactured homes placed in residential
subdivisions shall be designed and built to have an appearance similar
to or in conformance with the predominating architectural style of homes
on the street. This shall include, but not be limited to:

      •   Massing            •   Building materials

      •   Roofing materials         •   Window and architectural
treatments

      •   Compliance with Fire Overlay standards

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08;
Ord. No. 511, Exhibit A, 3/28/12; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord.
No. 528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]

17.20.050 Attached Single-Family and Multi-Family Housing - Additional
Standards

   (a)   Open Space Requirements

      (1)   All attached single-family and multi-family developments
with ten (10) or more dwelling units shall provide a minimum of five
hundred (500) square feet of a combination of private and common usable
open space per unit. Table 20-2 indicates the minimum open space
dimensions for usable common and private open space areas. The City may,
at its discretion, include private patios, decks, or balconies in the
calculation of open space provided within a development. Required front
and street side setback areas, driveways, parking areas, and walkways
shall not be used to satisfy any part of the common open space
requirement.

TABLE 20-2
USABLE OPEN SPACE DIMENSIONS
FOR MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS

 

  --------------------------------- ----------------------- ---------------- ---------------
  Zone and Type of                  Minimum Area Per Unit   Minimum Length   Minimum Width
                                                                             
  Usable Open Space                                                          

  R3-8                              350 sf                  12 ft.           12 ft.
                                                                             
  1. Common                         150 sf                  10 ft.           10 ft.
                                                                             
  2. Private                                                                 

  R-M12                             150 sf                  10 ft.           10 ft.
                                                                             
  Combined Common and Private                                                

  R3-30                             500 sf                  5 ft.            5 ft.
                                                                             
  Combined Common and Private (a)                                            
  --------------------------------- ----------------------- ---------------- ---------------

 

    (a)   Where Private Open Space is provided, it shall have a minimum
of forty (40) square feet in area and a minimum dimension of five (5)
feet.

      (2)   Required Amenities. All attached single-family and
multi-family housing developments shall provide recreational amenities
within the common open space. Common open space amenities shall include,
but not be limited to recreational amenities such as swimming pool,
picnic/barbeque area, volleyball court, passive sitting area, tot lot,
children’s playground (combined age group 2-5 and age group 5-12) and
indoor recreation/meeting room/fitness area. Amenities shall be provided
in accordance with the following:

TABLE 20-3
COMMON AREA AMENITY REQUIREMENTS

 

  -------------------------- ------------------------------------------
  Number of Dwelling Units   Number of Common Area Amenities Required
  0 - 10                     0
  10 - 50                    1
  51 - 100                   2
  101 -200                   3, including swimming pool or spa
  200+                       4, including swimming pool and spa
  -------------------------- ------------------------------------------

      * Planning Director may determine additional amenities are
required for projects that consist of 400+ units.

   (b)   Laundry Facilities

      Laundry facilities shall be installed in each unit or a laundry
room shall be installed within each building or within an enclosed
accessory building located at a maximum walking distance of two hundred
fifty (250) feet from the units they serve, with an appropriate ratio of
machines per dwelling unit.

   (c)   Onsite Storage

      Each dwelling unit shall be provided a minimum of seventy-five
cubic feet of lockable storage space outside the unit such as at the
entrance of the unit, on the balcony, within a carport or garage or
other similar location outside the unit.

   (d)   Trash Enclosures

      Trash enclosures shall be provided for any attached single-family
and multi-family housing development for the temporary storage and
collection of trash, rubbish, and/or garbage in accordance with all of
the following requirements:

      (1)   Trash enclosures shall be provided at a rate of 1 bin/24
units or a double bin per 48 units.

      (2)   All trash enclosures shall be located for convenient access
by occupants of the site and vehicular access for pick-up and disposal.
Trash enclosures shall be located to provide a maximum walking distance
of two hundred fifty (250) feet from the units they serve.

      (3)   Trash enclosures shall be enclosed by a decorative masonry
wall, architecturally compatible with the main building(s). Such
enclosure shall include a solid gate for bin access and a separate view
obstructing pedestrian access. A trellis of non-flammable materials or
heavy timbers, consistent with Fire Department requirements, shall be
provided over trash enclosures which are not inside a structure.

      (4)   All trash enclosures visible from streets or public parking
areas shall be constructed and finished to be compatible with the
architectural details and decor of the primary structure(s).

      (5)   All trash enclosures shall be regularly cleaned and
maintained.

      (6)   All trash containers and trash bins shall incorporate a
tight-fitting lid.

      (7)   Trash enclosures are prohibited in the front setback, or any
setback areas abutting residential zones, or properties used for
residential purposes.

   (e)   Professional Management Required

      Management by a professional management company providing
full-time services for the management of rental housing facilities is
required for all rental housing in a multi-family complex of ten units
or more.

   (f)   Landscaping

      Landscaping is required as specified in Chapters 17.60 and 17.15
of this Zoning Code. In addition to these requirements, multi-family
developments whose driveways (entry driveways and internal circulation
driveways) are located within any street-side setback and are not
perpendicular to the street are required to install a 36" high hedge or
decorative wall adjacent to driveways, for screening purposes.

   (g)   Parking Spaces

      (1)   Parking spaces shall be provided and located as specified in
Chapters 17.65 and 17.15 of this Zoning Code. Required parking spaces
can be reduced by thirty percent (30%) when seventy-five percent (75%)
or more of the units within a housing development are affordable to low
or very-low income levels, or as determined appropriate by the Planning
Director.

      (2)   Where driveways and parking spaces are located adjacent to a
single-family detached residential zone, driveways and parking spaces
shall have a landscaped setback from the property line a minimum of ten
(10) feet and a block wall or solid fence, a minimum of six (6) feet in
height, shall be provided adjacent to the property line.

   (h)   Required Building Separation for Primary Buildings within
Attached Single-Family and Multi-Family Developments

      The building separation requirements outlined in Table 20-3 shall
apply to any lot containing two or more dwelling units located in
separate, detached structures. The required separations shall be between
opposite exterior walls of any buildings containing dwelling units. In
the event that more stringent requirements are imposed by the Uniform
Building Code or the Fire Department, the more stringent regulations
shall apply.

TABLE 20-4
MINIMUM BUILDING SEPARATION
FOR PRIMARY BUILDINGS WITHIN ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY
AND MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS

 

  --------------------- -----------------------------
  Height of Building1   Minimum Required Separation
  Less than 25 ft.      10 ft.
  25 to 40 ft.          20 ft.
  --------------------- -----------------------------

 

    1.   Where buildings of different heights are adjacent, the standard
for the taller building shall apply.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08;
Ord. No. 511, Exhibit A, 3/28/12; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord.
No. 528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]

17.20.060 Mobilehome Parks

   (a)   Purpose

      The purpose of this Section is to provide regulations for the
location, design, and improvement of mobilehome parks, as defined by
Section 18214 of the Health and Safety Code.

   (b)   Other Regulations

      The provisions of the Mobilehome Parks Act, California Health and
Safety Code, Division 13, Part 2.1 and the applicable regulations
adopted pursuant thereto by the State Department of Housing and
Community Development are hereby adopted as a part of this Section. It
shall be the duty of the County Department of Environmental Health
Services to enforce all of the provisions of said Act pertaining to the
construction, alteration, or modification of all manufactured dwelling
units within mobile home parks. Construction only of all other
structures shall be subject to the review and approval of the Planning
Department and the Building and Safety Division. It shall be the duty of
the County Department of Environmental Health Services to enforce all
the provisions pertaining to permits for the operation, maintenance,
use, occupancy, sanitation, and safety of all mobilehome parks.

   (c)   Establishment of Mobilehome Parks

      (1)   A Conditional Use Permit (CUP) application shall be filed
pursuant to the requirements of Chapter 17.130. Each CUP application
filed pursuant to this Section shall be in compliance with the General
Plan, Specific Plan, and any adopted amendment(s) thereto.

      (2)   Each map or plan completed for the CUP application shall be
prepared by an architect, professional engineer, or other person
qualified to do such work. The map shall be drawn at a scale of one inch
(1") equals fifty feet (50') or less. Information required shall be as
specified by the CUP application packet.

   (d)   Standards of Design and Improvements

      (1)   Minimum Areas - Manufactured housing parks shall be
developed on a parcel of land at least ten (10) acres in area.

      (2)   Drainage and Flood Hazard - The park shall be located on a
well-drained site, properly graded to provide for adequate runoff. The
site shall be free of flood hazard from external sources. The Planning
Director may require dedications and improvements which will ensure
proper protection of the park in accordance with this Section.

      (3)   Streets and Highways - Dedications and improvements on
streets and highways abutting the proposed park are required in
accordance with the Circulation Element of the General Plan and
established widths of local and collector streets.

      (4)   Lot/Space Area and Dimensions - Each lot or space shall
contain a minimum area of three thousand five hundred (3,500) square
feet with a minimum width of forty feet (40') fronting on a driveway and
a minimum depth of seventy feet (70'). However, the following exceptions
shall apply:

         A.   Lots larger than the above minimum sizes may be required
where it is determined that increased lot size will be consistent with
the general pattern established by manufactured housing parks in the
vicinity, or be necessary to accommodate manufactured home sizes
proposed by the CUP.

         B.   Lots on curved driveways or cul-de-sacs, where lot lines
are either converging or diverging from the front to the rear of the
lot, shall have an average width at least thirty feet (30'), but in no
case shall the frontage on a driveway be less than twenty-five feet
(25').

      (5)   Distance Between Units - Mobilehomes shall be spaced in
accordance with the requirements of Title 25 of the California Code of
Regulations.

      (6)   Lot Coverage - Maximum lot coverage shall be as specified in
Title 25 of the California Code of Regulations.

      (7)   Required Perimeter Landscaping - A landscaped parkway of at
least twenty feet (20') in width shall be provided along the entire
perimeter of each mobilehome park where the park is adjacent to a public
roadway.

      (8)   Private Roads Within a Park - Roads within parks shall be
designed to provide reasonable and convenient traffic circulation and
shall meet the following minimum standards:

         A.   No road shall be less than thirty-three feet (33') wide if
car parking is permitted on one side of the road, and not less than
forty-one feet (41') wide if car parking is permitted on both sides.

         B.   The entire width of the roads within manufactured housing
parks shall be surfaced with a minimum of two inch (2") thick asphalt,
concrete, plant mix, or other approved material.

      (9)   Parking - Parking shall be provided as specified in Chapter
17.65 of this Zoning Code.

      (10)   Walkways - Walkways shall be provided to permit reasonably
direct access to all lots, service buildings, and other areas or
buildings used by occupants of the manufactured homes. Collector
walkways serving utility buildings, playgrounds, and other general areas
shall be four feet (4') wide or more, and individual entrance walks to
each manufactured home site shall be at least two feet (2') wide. All
walkways shall be constructed of asphalt, concrete, or other approved
materials which will permit all-weather pedestrian movement.

      (11)   Vehicle Storage - Common storage areas shall be provided
for the residents of the park for the storage of recreational vehicles,
trailers, travel trailers, and other licensed or unlicensed vehicles.
This area shall total not less than fifty (50) square feet for each lot.
All storage on a lot shall be in accordance with the provisions of Title
25 of the California Code of Regulations.

   (e)   Subdivisions of Mobilehome Parks

      Subdivision of mobilehome parks shall comply with all appropriate
design standards established by this Section and all applicable State
and City subdivision requirements.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08;
Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord.
No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]

17.20.070 Residential Condominium Conversions

   (a)   Purpose and Intent

      This Section provides standards and criteria for converting
multi-family dwellings, including dwelling units in a rental
manufactured housing park, to residential condominium, stock
cooperative, and community apartment types of ownership. The standards
and criteria promote the retention of affordable housing and promote
design quality.

   (b)   Standards

      The conversion shall be designed to comply with all applicable
development standards of the zoning district in which it is located. In
addition, the following standards shall apply:

      (1)   Conversion projects shall provide high quality urban design
by the provision of architectural enhancement, high quality landscaping,
and high quality construction.

      (2)   Privacy between residential units shall be enhanced through
urban design, insulation, and other means.

      (3)   An individual gas and/or electrical metering system shall be
provided for each dwelling unit.

      (4)   Where individual trash and recycling pick-up is not
provided, common trash and recycling storage shall be provided within a
totally walled structure six feet (6') in height. The enclosure or
enclosures shall be located within two hundred feet (200') of all
dwelling units.

      (5)   Conversion requires approval of a Tentative Tract or Parcel
Map pursuant to the requirements of Adelanto Municipal Code. The
application for conversion must also include the following additional
information:

         A.   A detailed report by licensed certified professionals
describing the condition of all structural, electrical, plumbing, and
mechanical elements of the existing development, including noise
insulation, and the estimated cost of repair or improvement, if any, in
a form acceptable to the City.

         B.   A complete and current mailing list and two (2) sets of
addressed stamped envelopes of all tenants occupying the subject
property as specified by the Planning Department shall be submitted and
utilized to provide notice of the public hearing for consideration of
the application for conversion.

   (c)   Tenant Provisions

      Each application for conversion shall include assurance that the
following provisions of the Government Code will be or have been
satisfied: Government Code Sections 66452.8, 66452.9, 66427.1, and any
other requirements of the applicable law requiring that tenants or
potential tenants receive notice regarding conversion.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]

17.20.080 Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units

      (a)   Purpose

         The purpose of this section is to establish regulations and
procedures for reviewing permitting Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) and
Junior Accessory Dwelling Units (JADUs) consistent with California
Government Code Sections 65852.2 and 65852.22, or any successor statute.

      (b)   Definitions

         Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) - A dwelling unit that is either
attached to, detached from, or contained within the principal dwelling
unit located or proposed on a site zoned for residential use.

         Accessory Structure - A structure that is located on the same
lot as the primary dwelling. An accessory structure may be either
attached or detached from the primary dwelling and must have a use that
is incidental to the main use. Examples of residential accessory uses
include, but are not limited to, storage sheds, garages, studios.

         Attached ADU - An accessory dwelling unit created by new
construction that is attached to the primary dwelling unit by a shared
wall, floor, or ceiling. Attached ADUs cannot be constructed in a
multi-family project.

         By-right - Zoning allows development to proceed without the
need for a discretionary permit including but not limited to a
conditional use permit, variance, or zoning amendment.

         Car Share Vehicle - Car sharing organizations offer members use
of cars on a short-term basis.

         Converted ADU - An accessory dwelling unit created by the
conversion of existing floor area within either the primary dwelling
unit or an accessory structure or by total replacement of an existing
accessory structure with an ADU.

         Detached ADU - An accessory dwelling unit located on the same
parcel and is created by new construction that is detached, or separate
from, the primary dwelling unit. Detached ADUs may be constructed on
single-family parcels or multi-family properties.

         Efficiency Kitchen - For purposes of establishing a JADU, an
efficiency kitchen shall be defined as area that shall include a sink,
food preparation counter and food storage area. A plug-in food
preparation, such as a microwave or hot plate, may also be provided.

         Existing Building Envelope - The existing walls and roofs of a
dwelling that separate interior space for exterior space. A space
enclosed by at least two (2) walls and a roof is within the existing
building envelope.

         Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit (JADU) - A dwelling unit
accessory to and entirely contained within an existing or proposed
single-family dwelling. A JADU may have a bathroom or may share a
bathroom with the primary dwelling unit.

         Kitchen - An area that includes a cooking appliance, sink,
refrigerator and food preparation and storage area.

         Minor Variance - Defined in Adelanto Municipal Code Section
17.140, a minor variance to specific development standards may be
approved by the Development Services Director.

         Multi-family Dwelling - An existing building that contains more
than one dwelling unit and is located within a zoning district that
allows multi-family dwellings.

         Primary Dwelling Unit - May be any of the following: an
existing single-family dwelling, a proposed single-family dwelling, or
an existing multi-family structure.

         Proposed Dwelling - A dwelling that has applied for a permit
and that meets the requirements for permitting.

         Public Transit - A location, including, but not limited to, a
bus stop or train station, where the public may access buses, trains,
subways, and other forms of transportation that charge set fares, run on
fixed routes and are available to the public.

         Tandem Parking - When two (2) or more vehicles are parked lined
up one behind the other.

         Underlying Zoning - The zoning district in which a parcel is
located on the City of Adelanto Zoning Map or within a specific plan.

      (c)   Applicability

         Any construction, establishment, alteration, enlargement, or
modification of an ADU or a JADU shall comply with the requirements of
this chapter and the City’s building and fire codes. An ADU or JADU
shall be deemed:

         (1)   Consistent with the general plan designation and zoning
for the parcel on which the ADU or JADU is located.

         (2)   Within the allowable density for the parcel on which the
ADU or JADU is located.

      (d)   Review Authority

         (1)   Building Permit Approval; Compliance with Underlying
Zoning. ADUs and JADUs that meet the applicable development standards
described in this chapter and the requirements of the underlying zoning
shall be approved by building permit review.

         (2)   Minor Variance Approval. An ADU that exceed the maximum
height standards may be permitted subject to approval of a minor
variance if the proposed unit meets the standards outlined in Chapter
17.140 and it can be demonstrated that the proposed ADU is designed so
that it does not negatively impact the neighboring properties.

         (3)   Ministerial Review. A permit application for an ADU or a
JADU shall be considered and approved ministerially without
discretionary review or a hearing.

         (4)   Timelines. The City shall act on an application to create
an ADU or JADU within 60 days from the date the City receives a
completed application if there is an existing single-family or
multi-family dwelling on the lot. If the permit application to create an
ADU unit or a JADU is submitted with a permit application to create a
new single-family dwelling on the lot, the City may delay acting on the
permit application for the ADU or the JADU until the City acts on the
permit application to create the new single-family dwelling, but the
application to create the ADU or Junior ADU shall be considered without
discretionary review or hearing. If the applicant requests a delay, the
60-day time period shall be tolled for the period of the delay. If the
City has not acted upon the completed application within 60 days, the
application shall be deemed approved.

      (e)   Location

         (1)   ADUs and JADUs are permitted on sites that have a
proposed or existing primary dwelling unit and with underlying zoning
that allow single-family homes by-right or conditional use.

         (2)   ADUs are permitted on sites that have a proposed or
existing multi-family residences and with underlying zoning districts
that allow multi-family homes by-right.

         (3)   JADUs are not permitted on sites where a portion of the
primary dwelling has been converted to an ADU.

         (4)   JADUs are not permitted on sites with multi-family
projects.

      (f)   Development Standards for All ADUs

         Except as modified by this Chapter, all ADUs shall conform to
the requirements of the underlying residential zoning district and the
Zoning Code in addition to the standards listed below. JADUs shall also
be subject to these standards.

         (1)   Minimum Lot Area. Shall be determined by the underlying
zoning as long as it does not prohibit construction of an ADU or JADU as
described in this Section 17.20.080.

         (2)   Building Height. Shall not exceed sixteen (16) feet
unless the proposed ADU is within the existing building envelope or
permitted by minor variance approval.

         (3)   Minimum Unit Size. Must have a minimum of one hundred
fifty (150) square feet floor area as provided in Health and Safety Code
Section 17958.1.

         (4)   Setbacks.

            a.   Front yard. Determined by underlying zone.

            b.   Side and Rear yards. Minimum four (4) feet or
underlying zone, whichever is less.

            c.   When a property is adjacent to an alley, the side or
rear yard setback may be reduced with a minor variance approval.

         (5)   Architectural Design. The architectural design of the ADU
shall be compatible with the architectural style and materials used in
the primary dwelling.

         (6)   Exterior Entrance. All units must have an entrance
separate from the primary dwelling entrance.

         (7)   Garage Doors. When garages are converted to ADUs or JADUs
the garage door for vehicles must be replaced with a wall that matches
the existing architecture.

         (8)   Bathroom. A separate bathroom is required.

         (9)   Kitchen. A kitchen area is required.

         (10)   Fire Sprinklers. Fire sprinklers are required when the
primary dwelling unit has fire sprinklers.

         (11)   Underlying Zoning Standards. Lot coverage, distance
requirements between structures and other standards established by the
underlying zoning may be applied so long as the application of the
requirements do not prohibit construction of an ADU with a floor area
that is eight hundred (800) square feet or less, or a peak height above
grade that is no more than sixteen (16) feet, or with side and rear yard
setbacks that are no less than four (4) feet.

         (12)   No passageway shall be required between the primary
dwelling and the ADU or JADU.

      (g)   Specific Development Standards for Single-Family - Attached
ADUs

         In addition to the development standards outlined in Section
17.20.080(f), attached ADUs shall comply with the following standards.

         (1)   Zoning. ADUs are allowed in any zoning that permits a
single-family residence by-right.

         (2)   Maximum Number of Units on a Site. No more than one (1)
primary dwelling unit and one (1) attached ADU are permitted.

         (3)   Maximum Unit Size. The attached ADU shall have an area no
more than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area in the primary dwelling.

            a.   Studios and one (1)-bedroom units - eight hundred fifty
(850) square feet.

            b.   More than one (1)-bedroom units - one thousand (1,000)
square feet.

         (4)   Parking Requirements. Except as provided in Section
17.20.080(l), one (1) parking space shall be required.

      (h)   Specific Development Standards for Single-Family - Detached
ADUs

         In addition to the development standards outlined in Section
17.20.080(f), detached ADUs shall comply with the following standards.

         (1)   Zoning. ADUs are allowed in any zoning that permits a
single-family residence by-right.

         (2)   Maximum Number of Units on a Site. No more than one (1)
primary dwelling unit, one detached ADU and one JADU are permitted.

         (3)   Maximum Unit Size.

            a.   Studios and one (1)-bedroom units - eight hundred fifty
(850) square feet.

            b.   More than one (1)-bedroom units - one thousand (1,000)
square feet.

         (4)   Parking Requirements. Except as provided in Section
17.20.080(l), one (1) parking space shall be required.

      (i)   Specific Development Standards for Single-Family - Converted
ADUs

         In addition to the development standards outlined in Section
17.20.080(f), converted ADUs shall comply with the following standards.

         (1)   Zoning. ADUs and JADUs are allowed in any zoning that
permits a single-family residence by-right.

         (2)   Maximum Number of Units on a Site. No more than one (1)
primary dwelling unit and one (1) converted ADU. No JADUs are permitted.

         (3)   Maximum Unit Size. The attached ADU shall have an area no
more than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area in the primary dwelling.

            a.   Studios and one (1)-bedroom units - eight hundred fifty
(850) square feet.

            b.   More than one (1)-bedroom units - one thousand (1,000)
square feet.

         (4)   Building Envelope. The converted ADU must be constructed
within the existing floor area of the primary dwelling.

         (5)   Additional Floor Area. Building envelope may be increased
by up to one hundred fifty (150) square feet to accommodate a new
entrance to the converted ADU.

         (6)   Parking Requirements

            a.   Primary Dwelling. When a garage is converted to an ADU,
the parking for the primary dwelling does not have to be replaced.

            b.   ADU. None.

      (j)   Specific Development Standards for JADUs

         In addition to the development standards outlined in Section
17.20.080(f), JADUs shall comply with the following standards.

         (1)   Zoning. JADUs are allowed in any zoning that permits a
single-family residence by-right.

         (2)   Maximum Number of JADUs on a Site. One (1).

         (3)   Maximum Unit Size. The maximum floor area of a JADU shall
not exceed five hundred (500) square feet.

         (4)   Building Envelope. The JADU must be constructed within
the existing building envelope of the primary dwelling.

         (5)   Additional Floor Area. Building envelope may be increased
by up to one hundred fifty (150) square feet to accommodate a new
entrance to the JADU.

         (6)   Exterior Entrance. JADU must have an entrance separate
from the primary dwelling entrance.

         (7)   Parking Requirements. None.

      (k)   Specific Development Standards for ADUs in Multi-Family
Sites

         In addition to the development standards outlined in Section
17.20.080(f), multi-family ADUs shall comply with the following
standards.

         (1)   Zoning. ADUs are allowed on residential and mixed use
zoned properties with existing or proposed multi-family dwellings.

         (2)   Maximum Number of Units

            a.   Converted units - at least one (1) and no more than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the existing number of units.

            b.   Detached units - two (2).

         (3)   Location

            a.   Site must have an existing or proposed multi-family
structure; and

            b.   ADUs must be located within portions of the structure
that are not used as livable space, including but not limited to storage
rooms, boiler rooms, passageways, attics, basements, and garages.

         (4)   Multi-Family Sites. The number of new multi-family units
permitted in a multi-family project shall not exceed twenty-five percent
(25%) of the existing multi-family units and shall be calculated in the
following manner:

            a.   Previously approved ADUs shall not count towards the
existing multi-family dwellings;

            b.   Fractions shall be rounded down to the next lower
number of dwelling units, except that at least one (1) ADU shall be
permitted; and

            c.   Multi-family projects approved and built as a single
complex shall be considered one lot, regardless of the number of parcels
or buildings.

         (5)   Maximum Unit Size.

            a.   Studios and one (1)-bedroom units - eight hundred fifty
(850) square feet.

            b.   More than one (1)-bedroom units - one thousand (1,000)
square feet.

         (6)   Type of ADUs

            a.   Permitted. Converted or detached ADUs.

            b.   Prohibited. Attached ADUs and JADUs.

         (7)   Parking Requirements. Except as provided in Section
17.20.080(l), the parking requirements shall be as follows:

            a.   Converted units - none.

            b.   Detached units - one (1) per ADU.

      (l)   Parking Standards

         (1)   Parking Requirements. Parking shall comply with Section
17.65.040, except as modified by the requirements of this Chapter.

            a.   Unless the requirement is exempted or waived by other
provisions of this Chapter, each ADU shall have one (1) designated
off-street parking space.

            b.   Tandem parking and parking within the rear and side
yard setbacks are permitted unless findings can be made by City staff
demonstrating that the design or location would create dangerous life or
fire safety conditions.

            c.   When a garage or carport is demolished or converted to
an ADU, replacement parking is not required.

         (2)   Parking Not Required. ADUs do not need to provide parking
when one (1) of the following standards is met.

            a.   The property is within one-half (1/2) mile walking
distance of public transit.

            b.   The ADU is within an architecturally and historically
significant historic district.

            c.   The ADU is part of the proposed or existing primary
residence or an accessory structure.

            d.   When on-street parking permits are required but not
offered to the occupant of the ADU.

            e.   When there is a carshare vehicle located within one (1)
block of the ADU.

      (m)   Operational Requirements for All ADUs and JADUs

         (1)   No Separate Conveyance

            a.   Single-Family ADUs and JADUs. Except as otherwise
provided in Government Code Section 65852.26, an ADU or JADU may be
rented separate from the primary dwelling, but may not be sold or
otherwise conveyed separately from the lot and the primary dwelling
multi-family ADUs. Except as otherwise provided in Government Code
Section 65852.26, an ADU or JADU may be rented separate from the primary
dwelling, but may not be sold or otherwise conveyed separately from the
lot and the primary dwelling.

         (2)   Short-Term Lodging. An ADU or JADU permitted by this
Chapter shall not be rented for periods of thirty (30) days or less.

         (3)   Deed Restriction and Recordation. Prior to issuance of a
building and/or grading permit for an ADU, the property owner shall
record a deed restriction with the County Recorder’s office, the form
and content of which is satisfactory to the City Attorney. This deed
restriction shall remain in effect so long as the ADU and/or JADU
remains on the lot. The deed restriction document shall notify future
owners of the following:

            a.   Prohibition on the separate conveyance of the property,
except as otherwise provided in Government Code Section 65852.26;

            b.   Approved size and attributes of the units or units; and

            c.   Restrictions on short-term rentals.

      (n)   Development Impact Fees

         (1)   Single-Family ADUs. ADUs up to seven hundred fifty (750)
square feet are exempt from impact fees. ADUs that are seven hundred
fifty (750) square feet or larger shall be subject to impact fees that
are proportional in size (by square foot) to those for the primary
dwelling unit and in all cases the impact fee must be less than the
primary dwelling unit, per Government Code Section 65852.2, subsection
(f)(3) as may be amended. Proportionate in size means the square foot
amount that corresponds to the total square foot amount of the primary
dwelling unit (for example, a two thousand (2,000) square foot primary
dwelling with a proposed one thousand (1,000) square foot ADU would
result in fifty percent (50%) of the impact fee that would be charged
for a new primary dwelling on the same site).

         (2)   Multi-Family ADUs. For ADUs that are seven hundred fifty
(750) square foot or larger on a lot with a multi-family dwelling, the
proportionality share of impact fees shall be based on the average
square footage of the units within that multi-family dwelling structure.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15; Ord.
No. 627, Exhibit C, 6/22/22.]

17.20.090   Outdoor Storage

   The outdoor storage of boats, travel trailers, and other recreational
vehicles on residential lots shall be permitted subject to the
following:

   (a)   The outdoor storage of boats, travel trailers, and other
recreational vehicles is permitted on residential lots provided that:

      (1)   Sufficient distance, as required by the Uniform Building
Code, is provided between the vehicle/object and any inhabited building,

      (2)   Vehicles are subject to the requirements contained in
Section 17.65.040(b) of this Code.

   (b)   Portable, semi-permanent, or permanent covers used to protect
boats, travel trailers, or recreational vehicles from the sun and
weather may be used, provided that:

      (1)   Such structures are located entirely behind the front
setback line of the lot.

      (2)   They are located behind a solid type fence/wall concealing
them from view from the right-of-way.

      (3)   Sufficient distance, as required by the Uniform Building
Code, is provided between the structure and any inhabited building.

      (4)   The boat, trailer, or vehicle under the cover is parked
consistent with the requirements of Section 17.65.040(b) of this Zoning
Code.

      (5)   The cover is maintained in good repair.

   (c)   One (1) such cover may be used for each 7,200 square feet of
lot area, with a maximum of two (2) covers per lot.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08;
Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord.
No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]

17.20.100   Supportive and Transitional Housing Facilities

   (a)   In accordance with section 65583 of the California Government
Code, transitional housing and supportive housing shall be considered a
residential use of property, and shall be subject only to those
restrictions that apply to other residential dwellings of the same type
in the same zone.

[Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]

17.20.110   Emergency Shelters

   (a)   An emergency shelter may include general office activities and
provide for services such as, donations, mail reception, referral
services, job placement services, worship, bible study, group meetings
and clothing assistance.

   (b)   The maximum length of stay for a resident of an emergency
shelter shall be six months.

   (c)   An emergency shelter shall be a minimum of 1,000 feet from a
nursing home, school, Public Park, assembly facility or another
emergency shelter.

   (d)   Off-street parking shall be provided at the ratio of one
on-site parking space for every ten adult beds, plus one additional
space for the on-site manager. No client shall sleep or live within a
motor vehicle on the shelter property at any time.

   (e)   All shelters shall meet and comply with all Local, County and
State Health and Safety codes and laws such as, but not limited to, the
California Building Code, the California Fire Code and the San
Bernardino County Division of Environmental Health Services.

   (f)   Prior to occupancy, a shelter must be inspected to ensure all
standards are met. No facility may operate unless all requirements are
satisfied.

   (g)   Any outdoor or indoor event not specifically permitted with a
shelter shall require review and approval of a Temporary Use Permit by
the Planning Department Subject to the discretion of the Director or
Designee.

   (h)   Yard sales are limited to three consecutive days and up to four
times per calendar year. Car washes are limited to one day and up to
four times per calendar year. Both events must have all applicable
permits approved and all fees paid.

   (i)   There shall be no outdoor storage permitted, including but not
limited to clothes lines and shopping carts.

   (j)   Loitering or panhandling at or near shelters is prohibited,
including but not limited to, businesses, sidewalks, parking lots,
public parks, right-of-way or other private properties.

   (k)   The intake or gathering of for meals, temporary uses or events
shall occur in an enclosed or screened area and the queuing of any
individuals shall not be visible from the right-of-way.

   (l)   On-site personnel shall be provided during all hours of
operation and a designated area shall be maintained for such personnel
near the main entry of the facility.

   (m)   Each shelter must designate and maintain set hours of operation
for intake and discharge and must clearly display the hours of operation
at the entrance.

   (n)   A shelter shall not admit any person who is wanted by the
police or has been convicted of a violent crime. The operator shall
conduct a background check using the Megan’s Law database and restrict
client intake in accordance with state sex offender residency
restrictions.

   (o)   Each shelter shall submit, on a monthly basis, the names and
number of homeless personnel to the Sheriffs Department.

   (p)   Emergency shelters shall provide a detailed security plan for
review and approval to the Planning Department prior to operation. Any
violation of the approved security plan shall be grounds for the
revocation of the business and/or occupancy license.

   (q)   A restroom facility shall be provided for every twenty clients
residing at the shelter. Separate and secured areas shall be provided
for both men and women for sleeping, showering and restroom facilities.
The shelter manager shall be responsible for ensuring that all restroom
and showering facilities comply with City and State building Codes.

   (r)   All shelters must obtain a business license and an occupancy
permit from the Planning Department.

   (s)   Any food service or on-site meal preparation areas shall comply
with all applicable City of Adelanto and San Bernardino County Division
of Environmental Health Services requirements.

[Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]

CHAPTER 17.21
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY BONUS

   17.21.010   Purpose and Intent

   17.21.020   Definitions

   17.21.030   Implementation

   17.21.040   Development Standards

   17.21.050   Development Incentives

   17.21.060   Application Requirements and Review

   17.21.070    Density Bonus Housing Agreement

Section 17.21.010. Purpose and Intent.

This Density Bonus Ordinance is intended to provide incentives for the
production of housing for very low, lower income, or senior households
in accordance with Sections 65915 and 65917 of the California Government
Code. In enacting this Chapter, it is the intent of the City of Adelanto
to facilitate the development of affordable housing and to implement the
goals, objectives, and policies of the City’s Housing Element.

The regulations and procedures set forth in this Chapter shall be
publicized by the City and shall apply throughout the City. Sections of
the California Government Code referenced in this Chapter and
application forms for complying with this Chapter, shall be available to
the public.

Section 17.21.020. Definitions.

Whenever the following terms are used in this Chapter, they shall have
the meaning established by this section:

"Additional Incentives" means such regulatory concessions as specified
in California Government Code Subsections 65915 (d) and (h) to include,
but not be limited to, the reduction of site development standards or
zoning code requirements, direct financial assistance, approval of
mixed-use zoning in conjunction with the Housing Development, or any
other regulatory incentive which would result in identifiable cost
avoidance or reductions that are offered in addition to a Density Bonus.
See Section 17.21.050 of this Chapter.

"Affordable Rent" means monthly housing expenses, including a reasonable
allowance for utilities, for rental Target Units reserved for Very Low
or Lower Income Households, not exceeding the following calculations:

   (1)    Very Low Income: 50 percent of the area median income for San
Bernardino County, adjusted for household size, multiplied by 30 percent
and divided by 12.

   (2)    Lower Income: 60 percent of the area median income for San
Bernardino County, adjusted for household size, multiplied by 30 percent
and divided by 12.

"Affordable Sales Price" means a sales price at which Lower or Very Low
Income Households can qualify for the purchase of Target Units,
calculated on the basis of underwriting standards of mortgage financing
available for the development.

"Density Bonus" means a minimum density increase of at least 25 percent
over the otherwise Maximum Residential Density.

"Density Bonus Housing Agreement" means a legally binding agreement
between a developer and the City to ensure that the requirements of this
Chapter are satisfied. The agreement, among other things, shall
establish: the number of Target Units, their size, location, terms and
conditions of affordability, and production schedule. See Section
17.21.070 of this Chapter.

"Density Bonus Units" means those residential units granted pursuant to
the provisions of this Chapter which exceed the otherwise Maximum
Residential Density for the development site.

"Equivalent Financial Incentive" means a monetary contribution, based
upon a land cost per dwelling unit value, equal to one of the following:

   (1)    A Density Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s); or

   (2)    A Density Bonus, where an Additional Incentive(s) is not
requested or is determined to be unnecessary. See Section 17.21.040 of
this Chapter.

"Housing Cost" means the sum of actual or projected monthly payments for
all of the following associated with for-sale Target Units: principal
and interest on a mortgage loan, including any loan insurance fees,
property taxes and assessments, fire and casualty insurance, property
maintenance and repairs, homeowner association fees, and a reasonable
allowance for utilities.

"Housing Development" means construction projects consisting of five or
more residential units, including single family, multifamily, and
mobilehomes for sale or rent, pursuant to this Chapter.

"Lower Income Household" means households whose income does not exceed
the lower income limits applicable to San Bernardino County, as
published and periodically updated by the State Department of Housing
and Community Development pursuant to Section 50079.5 of the California
Health and Safety Code.

"Maximum Residential Density" means the maximum number of residential
units permitted by the City's General Plan Land Use Element and Zoning
Ordinance at the time of application, excluding the provisions of this
Chapter. If the housing development is within a planned development
overlay zone, the maximum residential density shall be determined on the
basis of the general plan and the maximum density of the underlying
zone.

"Non-Restricted Unit" means all units within a Housing Development
excluding the Target Units.

"Qualifying Resident" means senior citizens or other persons eligible to
reside in Senior Citizen Housing.

"Senior Citizen Housing" means a housing development consistent with the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act (Government Code Section
12900 et. seq., including 12955.9 in particular), which has been
"designed to meet the physical and social needs of senior citizens," and
which otherwise qualifies as "housing for older persons" as that phrase
is used in the federal Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 (P.L.
100-430) and implementing regulations (24 CFR, part 100, subpart E), and
as that phrase is used in California Civil Code Section 51.2 and 51.3.

"Target Unit" means a dwelling unit within a Housing Development which
will be reserved for sale or rent to, and affordable to, Very Low or
Lower Income Households, or Qualifying Residents.

"Very Low Income Household" means households whose income does not
exceed the very low income limits applicable to San Bernardino County,
as published and periodically updated by the State Department of Housing
and Community Development pursuant to Section 50105 of the California
Health and Safety Code.

Section 17.21.030. Implementation.

The City shall grant either: a Density Bonus, or a Density Bonus with an
Additional Incentive(s),or Equivalent Financial Incentives, as set forth
in Section 17.21.050 of this Chapter, to an applicant or developer of a
Housing Development, who agrees to provide the following:

   (1)    At least 20 percent of the total units of the Housing
Development as Target Units affordable to Lower Income Households; or

   (2)    At least 10 percent of the total units of the Housing
Development as Target Units affordable to Very Low Income Households; or

   (3)    Senior citizen housing.

      In determining the minimum number of Density Bonus Units to be
granted pursuant to this Section, the Maximum Residential Density for
the site shall be multiplied by .25. When calculating the number of
permitted Density Bonus Units, any fractions of units shall be rounded
to the next larger integer.

      In determining the number of Target Units to be provided pursuant
to this Section, the Maximum Residential Density shall be multiplied by
.10 where Very Low Income Households are targeted, or by .20 where Lower
Income Households are targeted. The Density Bonus Units shall not be
included when determining the total number of Target Units in the
Housing Development. When calculating the required number of Target
Units, any resulting decimal fraction shall be rounded to the next
larger integer. In cases where a density increase of less than 25
percent is requested, no reduction will be allowed inthe number of
Target Units required. In cases where a density increase of more than 25
percent is requested, the requested density increase, if granted, shall
be considered an Additional Incentive, as outlined in Section 17.21.050
of this Chapter.

      In cases where the developer agrees to construct more than 20
percent of the total units for Lower Income Households, or more than 10
percent of the total units for Very Low Income Households, the developer
is entitled to only one Density Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s) (or
an Equivalent Financial Incentive) pursuant to Section 17.21.050 of this
Chapter. Similarly, a developer who agrees to construct Senior Citizen
Housing with 20 or 10 percent of the units reserved for Lower- or Very
Low-Income Households, respectively, is only entitled to one Density
Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s). The City may, however, grant
multiple Additional Incentives to facilitate the inclusion of more
Target Units than are required by this Chapter.

Section 17.21.040. Development Standards.

Target Units should be constructed concurrently with Non-Restricted
Units unless both the City/County and the developer/applicant agree
within the Density Bonus Housing Agreement to an alternative schedule
for development.

Target Units shall remain restricted and affordable to the designated
group for a period of 30 years (or a longer period of time if required
by the construction or mortgage financing assistance program, mortgage
insurance program, or rental subsidy program), under the following
circumstances:

   (1)    Both a Density Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s) is
granted; or

   (2)    An Equivalent Financial Incentive equivalent to a Density
Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s) is granted.

      Target Units shall remain restricted and affordable to the
designated group for a period of 10 years under the following
circumstances:

   (1)    Only a Density Bonus is granted and no Additional Incentives
are granted; or

   (2)    An Equivalent Financial Incentive equivalent to only a Density
Bonus is granted.

      In determining the maximum Affordable Rent or Affordable Sales
Price of Target Units the following household and unit size assumptions
shall be used, unless the Housing Development is subject to different
assumptions imposed by other governmental regulations:

 

  ------------------------------ -----------------
  SRO (residential hotel) unit   75% of 1 person
  0 bedroom (studio)             1 person
  1 bedroom                      2 person
  2 bedroom                      3 person
  3 bedroom                      4 person
  4 bedroom                      6 person
  ------------------------------ -----------------

 

      Target Units should be built on-site wherever possible and, when
practical, be dispersed within the Housing Development. Where feasible,
the number of bedrooms of the Target Units should be equivalent to the
bedroom mix of the non-Target units of the Housing Development; except
that the Developer may include a higher proportion of Target Units with
more bedrooms. The design and appearance of the Target Units shall be
compatible with the design of the total Housing Development. Housing
Developments shall comply with all applicable development standards,
except those which may be modified as provided by this Chapter.

      Circumstances may arise in which the public interest would be
served by allowing some or all of the Target Units associated with one
Housing Development to be produced and operated at an alternative
development site. Where the developer and the City form such an
agreement, the resulting linked developments shall be considered a
single Housing Development for purposes of this Chapter. Under these
circumstances, the developer shall be subject to the same requirements
of this Chapter for the Target Units to be provided on the alternative
site.

      A Density Bonus Housing Agreement shall be made a condition of the
discretionary planning permits (e.g., tract maps, parcel maps, site
plans, planned development or conditional use permits, etc.) for all
Housing Developments pursuant to this Chapter. The Agreement shall be
recorded as a restriction on the parcel or parcels on which the Target
Units will be constructed. The Agreement shall be consistent with
Section 17.21.070 of this Chapter.

Section 17.21.050. Development Incentives.

The City shall provide a Density Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s),
for qualified Housing Developments, upon the written request of a
developer, unless the City makes a written finding that the Additional
Incentive(s) is not necessary to make the Housing Development
economically feasible and to accommodate a Density Bonus.

The development incentives granted shall contribute significantly to the
economic feasibility of providing the Target Units. Applicants seeking a
waiver or modification of development or zoning standards shall show
that such waivers or modifications are necessary to make the Housing
Development economically feasible in accordance with Government Code
Section 65915(e). This requirement may be satisfied by reference to
applicable sections of the City's general plan Housing Element.

The need for incentives will vary for different Housing Developments.
Therefore, the allocation of Additional Incentives shall be determined
on a case-by-case basis. The Additional Incentives may include, but are
not limited to, any of the following:

   (1)   A reduction of site development standards or a modification of
zoning code or architectural design requirements which exceed the
minimum building standards provided in Part 2.5 (commencing with Section
18901) of Division 13 of the California Health and Safety Code. These
may include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following:

      (a)    Reduced minimum lot sizes and/or dimensions.

      (b)    Reduced minimum lot setbacks.

      (c)    Reduced minimum outdoor and/or private outdoor living area.

      (d)    Increased maximum lot coverage.

      (e)    Increased maximum building height and/or stories.

      (f)    Reduced on site parking standards, including the number or
size of spaces and garage requirements.

      (g)    Reduced minimum building separation requirements.

      (h)    Reduced street standards, e.g., reduced minimum street
widths.

   (2)   Allow the Housing Development to include non-residential uses
and/or allow the Housing Development within a non-residential zone.

   (3)   Other regulatory incentives or concessions proposed by the
developer or the City/County which result in identifiable cost
reductions or avoidance.

   (4)   A Density Bonus of more than 25 percent.

   (5)   Waived, reduced, or deferred planning, plan check, construction
permit, and/or development impact fees (e.g., capital facilities, park,
or traffic fees).

   (6)   Direct financial aid (e.g., redevelopment set-aside, Community
Development Block Grant funding) in the form of a loan or a grant to
subsidize or provide low interest financing for on or off site
improvements, land or construction costs.

      The City/County may offer an Equivalent Financial Incentive in
lieu of granting a Density Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s). The
value of the Equivalent Financial Incentive shall equal at least the
land cost per dwelling unit savings that would result from a Density
Bonus and must contribute significantly to the economic feasibility of
providing the Target Units pursuant to this Chapter.

Section 17.21.060. Application Requirements and Review.

An application pursuant to this Chapter shall be processed concurrently
with any other application(s) required for the Housing Development.
Final approval or disapproval of an application (with right of appeal to
the City Council) shall be made by the Planning Commission unless direct
financial assistance is requested. If direct financial assistance is
requested, the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the
City Council who will have the authority to make the final decision on
the application.

An applicant/developer proposing a Housing Development pursuant to this
Chapter, may submit a preliminary application prior to the submittal of
any formal request for approval of a Housing Development. Applicants are
encouraged to schedule a pre-application conference with the Community
Development Director or designated staff to discuss and identify
potential application issues, including prospective Additional
Incentives pursuant to Section 17.21.050 of this Chapter. No charge will
be required for the pre-application conference. A preliminary
application shall include the following information:

   (1)   A brief description of the proposed Housing Development,
including the total number of units,Target Units, and Density Bonus
Units proposed.

   (2)   The zoning and general plan designations and assessors parcel
number(s) of the project site.

   (3)   A vicinity map and preliminary site plan, drawn to scale,
including building footprints, driveway and parking layout.

   (4)   If an Additional Incentive(s) is requested, the application
should describe why the Additional Incentive(s) is necessary to provide
the Target Units, in accordance with Section 17.21.050 of this Chapter.

      Within 90 days of receipt of the preliminary application the City
shall provide to an applicant/developer, a letter which identifies
project issues of concern, (the maximum financial assistance that the
Community Development Director can support when making a recommendation
to the City Council, and the procedures for compliance with this
Chapter.

      The Community Development Director shall inform the
applicant/developer that the requested Additional Incentives shall be
recommended for consideration with the proposed Housing Development, or
that alternative or modified Additional Incentives pursuant to Section
17.21.050 shall be recommended for consideration in lieu of the
requested Incentives. If alternative or modified Incentives are
recommended by the Community Development Director, the recommendation
shall establish how the alternative or modified Incentives can be
expected to have an equivalent affordability effect as the requested
Incentives.

Section 17.21.070. Density Bonus Housing Agreement.

Applicants/Developers requesting a Density Bonus, shall (draft and)
agree to enter into a Density Bonus Housing Agreement with the City. The
terms of the draft agreement shall be reviewed and revised as
appropriate by the Community Development Director, who shall formulate a
recommendation to the Planning Commission for final approval.

Following execution of the agreement by all parties, the completed
Density Bonus Housing Agreement, or memorandum thereof, shall be
recorded and the conditions therefrom filed and recorded on the parcel
or parcels designated for the construction of Target Units. The approval
and recordation shall take place prior to final map approval, or, where
a map is not being processed, prior to issuance of building permits for
such parcels or units. The Density Bonus Housing Agreement shall be
binding to all future owners and successors in interest.

The Density Bonus Housing Agreement shall include at least the
following:

   (1)   The total number of units approved for the Housing Development,
including the number of Target Units.

   (2)   A description of the household income group to be accommodated
by the Housing Development, as outlined in Section 17.21.030 of this
Chapter, and the standards for determining the corresponding Affordable
Rent or Affordable Sales Price and Housing Cost.

   (3)   The location, unit sizes (square feet), and number of bedrooms
of Target Units.

   (4)   Tenure of use restrictions for Target Units of at least 10 or
30 years, in accordance with Section 17.21.040 of this Chapter.

   (5)   A schedule for completion and occupancy of Target Units.

   (6)   A description of the Additional Incentive(s) or Equivalent
Financial Incentives being provided by the City.

   (7)   A description of remedies for breach of the agreement by either
party (the City may identify tenants or qualified purchasers as third
party beneficiaries under the agreement).

   (8)   Other provisions to ensure implementation and compliance with
this Chapter.

      A.    In the case of for-sale Housing Developments, the Density
Bonus Housing Agreement shall provide for the following conditions
governing the initial sale and use of Target Units during the applicable
use restriction period:

         (1)   Target Units shall, upon initial sale, be sold to
eligible Very Low or Lower Income Households at an Affordable Sales
Price and Housing Cost, or to Qualified Residents (i.e., maintained as
Senior citizen housing) as defined by this Chapter.

         (2)   Target Units shall be initially owner-occupied by
eligible Very Low or Lower Income Households, or by Qualified Residents
in the case of Senior citizen housing.

         (3)   The initial purchaser of each Target Unit shall execute
an instrument or agreement approved by the City restricting the sale of
the Target Unit in accordance with this ordinance during the applicable
use restriction period. Such instrument or agreement shall be recorded
against the parcel containing the Target Unit and shall contain such
provisions as the City may require to ensure continued compliance with
this ordinance and the state Density Bonus Law.

      B.    In the case of rental Housing Developments, the Density
Bonus Housing Agreement shall provide for the following conditions
governing the use of Target Units during the use restriction period:

         (1)   The rules and procedures for qualifying tenants,
establishing Affordable Rent, filling vacancies, and maintaining Target
Units for qualified tenants;

         (2)   Provisions requiring owners to verify tenant incomes and
maintain books and records to demonstrate compliance with this Chapter.

         (3)   Provisions requiring owners to submit an annual report to
the City, which includes the name, address, and income of each person
occupying Target Units, and which identifies the bedroom size and
monthly rent or cost of each Target Unit.

CHAPTER 17.22
AIRPORT PARK (AP)

   17.22.010   Intent

   17.22.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Conditional Uses, and
Temporary Uses

   17.22.030   Administrative Development Plan Approval

   17.22.040   Development Standards

   17.22.050   Minimum Design Standards

   17.22.060   Accessory Uses and Structures

   17.22.070   Outdoor Storage

   17.22.080   Parking Standards

   17.22.090   Federal Aviation Administration Review

   17.22.100   Additional Review and Requirements

17.22.010 Intent.

   The Airport Park designated herein by the symbol "AP", is intended to
protect the established, private Adelanto Airport and property in the
immediate vicinity and to provide for appropriate development of
aviation uses and such related uses. Uses in this zoning district are
intended primarily for low density single-family residential dwellings
and accessory uses, personal aircraft storage areas, mixed-use
(residential and airport related commercial), some limited aviation and
aircraft related light industry/manufacturing development, and limited
commercial uses related to the airport. All uses are intended to create
minimal impacts on the surrounding development. The Adelanto Airport is
licensed by the State of California as a private Special-Use Airport and
is classified as a Utility Airport. A Utility Airport is designed,
constructed and maintained to serve airplanes with an aircraft approach
category of (A) speed less than ninety-one (91) knots.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]

17.22.020 Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Conditional Uses, and
Temporary Uses.

   (a)   Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zone District of this Zoning
Code primarily permits Low Density residential uses and the hangars
associated with the Airport Park including but not limited to the
following:

      •   General Manufacturing of aircraft and aircraft parts

      •   Aircraft painting

      •   Parts Assembly

      •   Aircraft restoration

      •   Aviation-related hardware stores

      •   Other accessory, conditionally permitted, and temporary uses
as indicated in Appendix A

   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the
review requirements and conditions contained in Chapter 17.130 of this
Zoning Code. Temporary uses are subject to the review requirements and
conditions contained in Chapter 17.155. Also, certain other uses such as
antennas may be subject to Special Use Standards outlined in Chapter
17.80, subject to the special height limitations contained in Table
22-1, Section 17.22.040(a).

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]

17.22.030 Administrative Development Plan Approval.

   The following development of properties within the Adelanto Airport
District may be administratively approved, subject to Section 17.22.100
and Chapter 17.100, and staff review and approval as specified below:

   (a)   A single-family residential structure, with or without a second
unit as addressed in Section 17.20.080 Second Units, on a lot that
complies with all the requirements of this Zoning Code, including but
not limited to the Minimum Design Standards contained in Section
17.22.050.

   (b)   A hangar limited to personal (non-commercial) use as an
accessory to a primary residential use, that is up to 10,000 square
feet, and that complies with all requirements of this Zoning Code,
including but not limited to the Minimum Design Standards contained in
Section 17.22.050.

   (c)   A single-family residence within an aircraft hangar for the
storage of personal (non-commercial) aircraft, which is limited to
personal (noncommercial) use and that complies with all the requirements
of this Zoning Code, including but not limited to the Minimum Design
Standards contained in Section 17.22.050. The floor area of the aircraft
hangar shall be less than 10,000 square feet, not including the
residential dwelling unit area.

   (d)   An aircraft hangar up to 10,000 square feet for the storage of
personal (noncommercial) aircraft, that complies with all the
requirements of this Zoning Code, including but not limited to the
Minimum Design Standards contained in Section 17.22.050 and the Parking
Standards contained in Section 17.22.080. Hangars without permanent
residences shall include a permanent restroom.

   (e)   An accessory structure up to 2,500 square feet, or a
combination of accessory structures with a combined total floor area not
to exceed 2,500 square feet, that is/are accessory to a primary
single-family residential use, not including an attached or detached
aircraft hangar limited to personal (non-commercial) use as described in
part (b) above.

   All other new structures shall be subject to review and approval of a
Location and Development Plan, as described in Chapter 17.150.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]

17.22.040 Development Standards.

   (a)   General Standards

      Table 22-1 provides the development standards for the Airport Park
District.

TABLE 22-1
AIRPORT PARK DISTRICT - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

  ---------------------- ----
  Development Standard   AP
  ---------------------- ----

Development Standard

AP

A.   Minimum Lot Size (Gross lot area, including street dedications and
runway and taxiway easements)

1 gross acre*

B.   Minimum Lot Width

100 feet

C.   Minimum Lot Depth

100 feet

D.   Maximum Lot Coverage by Buildings

60 percent

E.   Maximum Density

1 du/ac

F.   Maximum Height**

35 feet**

G.   Minimum Front Yard Setback

25 feet

H.   Minimum Side Yard Setback: 5 feet on one side and 10 feet on the
opposite side.

5 feet & 10 feet

I.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback

15 feet

*1)   Minimum lot size is defined as 1 acre with the required rights of
way and/or easements are granted for roadways and taxiways.

**2)   Encroachment into the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) Part 77
Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace shall comply with current
State/Federal permits and/or regulations, including FAR Part 77 when
applicable.

**3)   All structural heights shall be in compliance with current
State/Federal permits and/or regulations, including FAR Part 77 when
applicable.

Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft = feet; ac = acre; du = dwelling
unit;

Notes:

(i)   For further requirements, see Section 17.22.040(b) below.

(ii)   All setbacks shall be measured from the edge of roadways,
property lines and any easements for runways and taxiways.

 

[]

Note: All measurements are to be defined by the Current State/Federal
permits and/or regulations, including FAR Part 77 when applicable.

[]

 

Note: All measurements are to be defined by the Current State/Federal
permits and/or regulations, including FAR Part 77 when applicable.

[]

 

Note: All measurements to be defined by the current State/Federal
permits and/or regulations including FAR Part 77 when applicable.

   (b)   Airport Park Special Standards

      1.   All development within the Airport Park District, unless
otherwise specified in this section, shall be in accordance with Chapter
14.36 Development Impact Fees, or its successor, of the Municipal Code.

      2.   Once a building permit is issued, one 8' x 8' x 40' storage
container is permitted per parcel, but must be painted to match the
primary structure once completed, placed in the rear of the property,
and also screened by drought tolerant vegetation.

      3.   In order to limit glare and light pollution, all lights
except lights related to airport operations, shall be full cut-off
fixtures, such that light is directed downward and no light is emitted
above the horizontal plane of the bottom of the fixture, and light shall
also be directed so as to not cause glare on adjacent properties.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]

17.22.050 Minimum Design Standards.

   The following minimum design standards shall apply to all
construction projects, including manufactured housing, within the
Airport Park District.

   (a)   All primary single family residences shall have a minimum gross
floor area of one thousand (1,000) square feet. The minimum dwelling
unit width and depth shall be twenty (20) feet, measured from the
exterior of the structure and excluding garages, porches, patios, eaves,
cabanas, and bay windows.

   (b)   Utility hookups shall be provided along with a designated
laundry space, for residential structures, to accommodate installation
of a clothes washer and dryer. This laundry space and utility hookups
shall be provided within the primary residential structure or within an
enclosed accessory structure.

   (c)   Siding material shall consist of stucco, wood, brick, stone,
decorative concrete block, or powder coated (colored) architectural
metal. Synthetic materials of a similar appearance and equivalent
durability shall be permitted, subject to the approval of the Community
Development Director. Exterior siding shall extend to a point at or near
grade. However, if an approved solid wood, metal, concrete, or masonry
perimeter foundation is used, the siding need not extend below the top
of the foundation.

   (d)   Roofing materials shall be a minimum Class "A" as defined by
the Uniform Building Code and shall be architectural metal, such as
standing seam metal, or concrete tile, or equivalent.

   (e)   Areas for trash receptacles and recycling containers shall be
provided as required by the City of Adelanto.

   (f)   Manufactured homes placed on a residential lot shall be
designed and constructed so as to have an appearance similar to, or
consistent with, the predominate architectural style of homes on the
street. This shall include, but is not be limited to:

      •   Massing

      •   Building Materials

      •   Replaceable Roofing materials

      •   Window and architectural treatments

      •   Compliance with Fire Overlay standards

      •   Minimum twelve (12)-inch eaves

   (g)   Architectural Design

      Any new building or structure, any addition to an existing
building or structure, and installation or construction of any site
improvements shall be designed to create a unified functional and
comprehensive site plan. The improvements shall have an integrated
architectural theme that is compatible with and will complement and
enhance the subject and surrounding properties.

      1.   Residential Structures

         Residential structures shall include architectural features,
such as those listed below. Furthermore, hangars shall be
architecturally compatible with the residential structure.

         •   Low roof pitch

         •   Dormers

         •   Metal/tile roofs

         •   Wood columns

         •   Architectural and structural braces

         •   Recessed entries

         •   Balconies

         •   Awnings or shade elements

         •   Exposed beams and wood fascia

      2.   Commercial-Related Developments

         Commercial structures shall include architectural features,
such as those listed below:

         •   Integrated roof elements with parapets

         •   Covered outdoor pedestrian areas

         •   Landscaped parking island

         •   Uniform signs

         •   Covered recessed entrances

         •   Architectural elements to screen all mechanical equipment

      3.   Manufacturing/Industrial-Related Developments

         Industrial structures shall include architectural features,
such as those listed below:

         •   Integrated roof elements

         •   Covered entryways

         •   Shaded windows

   (h)   Walls and Fences

      1.   The maximum height at all locations, except the required
front yard, is eight (8) feet as measured from the top of the wall to
finished grade.

      2.   Retaining and Crib walls shall comply with the requirements
contained in Section 17.10.120(b) of this Municipal Code.

      3.   The height of fences within the required front yard shall be
as described in Section 17.10.120(c).

      4.   All walls must be constructed of masonry, glass block, or a
combination thereof. All fences must be built with wood
(weatherproofed), decorative/wrought iron, chain link, or other similar
materials. The use of unsightly salvage materials is not permitted for
fencing purposes.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]

17.22.060 Accessory Uses and Structure.

   Accessory structures are subject to the same height and setback
requirements described for primary buildings and structures in Table
30-1 ADD, LM and MI Zone Districts - Development Standards, except as
modified by Section 17.10.070 Maximum Projections into Yard, and Section
17.22.030 (b).

   Temporary Hangars

   Temporary hangars shall be considered as accessory uses for a period
of five (5) years, even when such carports and temporary hangars are the
only structures on an empty lot. At the end of five (5) years, a
permanent residential structure shall be built. If after five (5) years,
no permanent residential structure is built, all applicable Development
Impact Fees shall be assessed and paid and all requirements for
permanent hangars met.

   Such temporary hangars shall be exempt from applicable Development
Impact Fees at the time building permits are issued, for a
non-commercial hangar and be limited to one (1) per parcel. If no
primary residence is in place, then each temporary hangar shall be
required to have a portable toilet in place at the site and maintained
in good service.

   Once a primary structure is added to the property, said temporary
hangar shall be color matched with the primary structure, and the
requirement for a portable toilet will no longer exist.

   Animals Allowed

   The regulations pertaining to what type of animals are allowed and
the standards for keeping them on a property are addressed in Title 7 of
the Adelanto Municipal Code.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]

17.22.070 Outdoor Storage.

   (a)   Storage is not allowed within the required front yard setback,
except for aircraft and operable vehicles on a designated driveway.

   (b)   All storage, except for operable vehicles and aircraft, shall
be screened from all public right-of-ways and adjacent residential
properties. Screening shall be the use of a decorative masonry block
wall, solid fencing, or other drought tolerant landscaping barrier.

   (c)   Recreational Vehicle Storage

      The storage of boats, travel trailers, and other recreational
vehicles, including personal aircraft for personal (non-commercial) use,
on residential lots within the Airport Park District shall be permitted
subject to the following:

      1.   The open storage of boats, travel trailers, and other
recreational vehicles, including personal aircraft for personal
(non-commercial) use, is permitted on residential lots subject to the
requirements contained in Section 17.20.110 Storage of Recreation
Vehicles of this Zoning Code.

      2.   Portable, semi-permanent, or permanent covers and temporary
hangars, used to protect boats, travel trailers, or recreational
vehicles including personal aircraft for personal (non-commercial) use,
from the sun and weather may be used, provided that:

         A.   Such structures are located entirely behind the front
setback line of the lot.

         B.   Sufficient distance, as required by the Uniform Building
Code, is provided between the structure and any habitable building.

         C.   The cover is maintained in good repair.

         D.   All structures shall be subject to Building Department
review and approval.

         E.   Portable or semi-portable carports shall be allowed one
per acre, and shall be removed when fabric cover becomes unserviceable.

   (d)   Fuel Storage

      All fuel storage tanks shall be subject to the review and approval
of the San Bernardino County Fire Department, prior to Planning
Department approval.

   (e)   Water Storage

      All water storage reservoirs shall be designed and installed per
the San Bernardino County Fire Department standards and regulations, and
require a building permit per the Public Works Department.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]

17.22.080 Parking Standards.

   (a)   Parking standards for non-residential uses within the Airport
Park District shall comply with Chapter 17.65 of this Zoning Code.

   (b)   For residential units within the Airport Park District, with or
without an attached or detached hanger for the storage of personal
(non-commercial) aircraft as described in Section 17.22.030(b), a
minimum two (2) car garage or carport shall be provided per residential
unit.

   (c)   For aircraft hangars for non-commercial aircraft, a minimum of
one parking space shall be provided per 2,500 square feet of floor
space.

   Location of parking and loading facilities within the Airport Park
District shall comply with Chapter 17.65 of this Zoning Code.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]

17.22.090 Federal Aviation Administration Review.

   All properties identified on the City of Adelanto General Plan Land
Use/Zoning Map to be within the Airport Park District shall be subject
to applicable portions of Federal Aviation Regulation Part 77 prior to
development and placement of any structures on such property. Any
properties subject to Federal Aviation Regulation Part 77 shall submit
to the State of California, Department of Transportation, Aeronautics
Division, an agent of the Federal Aviation Administration any and all
development applications to the City of Adelanto.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]

17.22.100 Additional Review and Requirements.

   The properties in the Airport Park contain a number of public and
private facilities, which are integral to the airport and the uses in
this district. These facilities are operated, managed and maintained by
the Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association. In order to assure
the continued safe and adequate operation and maintenance of the airport
and these facilities, the following additional special provisions and
requirements shall apply in the Airport Park District.

   (a)   Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association Review. In
addition to all City application review processes, all new construction
and development, including any new subdivisions within the Airport Park
and the Airport Park Safety Overlay District shall be subject to the
review of the Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association. Standards
for Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association Review are as follows:

      1.   Each calendar year, it shall be the responsibility of the
Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association to submit to the City a
letter on official letterhead listing all members of the association and
those authorized to provide comments for the group. Should this letter
not be submitted on an annual basis, the City shall correspond with the
Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association with the most recent
contact information provided.

      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to submit any
proposed project to the Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association
(or its successor). P.O. Box 1102, Adelanto, CA 92301. The Adelanto
Airport Property Owner's Association shall review, respond, and submit
their written recommendations to the City of Adelanto, Planning Division
regarding any submittals within thirty (30) calendar days.

      3.   Should an application for development be submitted without
consultation of the Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association, the
City shall provide notification to the Adelanto Airport Property Owner's
Association for comments. The requirement for consultation with the
Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association shall be defined as
follows:

         a)   Comments on official letterhead from the Adelanto Airport
Property Owner's Association with authorized signature(s); or

         b)   A document responding to the City's request for comments
with "No Comments"; or

         c)   Verification that project information was sent to the
Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association via certified mail. Should
this method be used, the City may not act on a project until 30 days
after verified receipt of the project materials.

      The City shall consider the recommendations of the Adelanto
Airport Property Owner's Association prior to granting any approvals for
new construction, subdivision, development, or permits. Any appeals
shall be directed to Planning Commission and subsequently to the City
Council and decided by majority.

   (b)   Avigation and Overflight Easements. A noise and avigation
easement on all subdivision parcels and roadways shall be granted and
conveyed to the Southern California Logistics Airport as required in the
City adopted Land Use Plan.

   (c)   Access, Utility, Runway, and Taxiway Easements/Agreements. In
order to ensure adequate vehicular access, as well as use and access of
the airport, prior to any development, subdivision, or issuance of
building permits for any new construction the following shall be
addressed:

      1.   Vehicular Access and Utilities. Provide minimum roadways
consistent with the street classification system as described in the
General Plan for vehicular access and for proposed and future utilities.

      2.   Runway Object Free Area/Runway Safety Area. The Adelanto
Airport Owner's Association (AAPOA) shall provide for a Runway Object
Free Area (ROFA) as defined in the State FAA permits.

         The Runway Object Free Area (ROFA) also incorporates the Runway
Safety Area (RSA) required to enhance the safety of airplanes that
overshoot, overrun, or veer off the runway. The Runway Safety Area (RSA)
is centered on the runway centerline and is within the Runway Object
Free Area (ROFA), see Figure 1 Runway Object Free Area/Runway Safety.
All distances will be measured from the centerline of each runway as
defined by the State FAA permits.

      3.   Taxiways. Taxiway access shall be provided for all properties
to the runways. Taxiway easements shall have a minimum width of fifty
(50) feet.

[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]

CHAPTER 17.25
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS

   17.25.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.25.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and
Conditional Uses

   17.25.030   Location and Development Plan

   17.25.040   Development Standards

   17.25.060   Alcoholic Beverage Establishments

   17.25.070   Entertainment Establishments Providing Dancing, Music,
and Similar Activities

   17.25.080   Outdoor Display and Storage

   17.25.090   Recycling Facilities

   17.25.100   Additional Requirements for Service Stations

   17.25.110   Drive-Through Facilities

17.25.010 Intent and Purpose

   The commercial designation is intended to allow commercial
development, to provide maximum opportunity and flexibility for a broad
array of commercial, institutional, and business uses within walking
distance to multiple land use opportunities. Toward this end, the
following district is established:

   General Commercial (C)

   The General Commercial (C) district provides for retail centers that
serve community-wide needs and neighborhood needs. The General
Commercial district provides for commercial areas that include, but are
not limited to, large retail uses such as “big box” stores, furniture
stores, appliance and home electronics retailers; movie theaters;
service commercial businesses; professional business offices; and
restaurants. The district also provides for a wide range of
smaller-scale business activities which serve the needs of residents who
live nearby. Typical businesses include, but are not limited to, food
and drug stores, child care, clothing stores, neighborhood-serving
convenience stores, and professional and business offices. The
regulations in this Chapter are aimed toward ensuring that development
within the General Commercial zone is compatible with the surrounding
area with respect to the type of use, scale, intensity of development,
architectural character, and other impacts upon the community, and that
the activities serve the needs of the adjoining residential
neighborhoods.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]

17.25.020 Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and
Conditional Uses

   (a)   Appendix A of this Development Code indicates the uses
permitted in the commercial zone districts. Commercial uses represent
the primary permitted uses, although other uses are allowed as
accessory, conditionally permitted, and temporary uses, as indicated in
Appendix A.

   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the
review requirements and conditions contained in Chapter 17.130
(Conditional Use Permits) of this Zoning Code. Temporary uses and
conditions are subject to the review requirements and conditions
contained in Chapter 17.155 (Temporary Use Permit). Also, certain uses
such as churches and businesses involved in the sale of alcoholic
beverages may be subject to Special Use Standards outlined in Chapter
17.80 .

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]

17.25.030 Location and Development Plan

   A Location and Development Plan approval, as described in Chapter
17.150 (Location and Development Plan) and Chapter 17.100
(Administrative Procedures), is required for all commercial development
projects, except as otherwise permitted by this code.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]

17.25.040 Development Standards

    (a)   Development Standards Table.

      Table 25-1 sets forth minimum development standards for commercial
development projects. The site development criteria set forth in the
following subsection are intended to provide minimum standards for the
development and use of land within the commercial districts. These site
development criteria should be used in conjunction with the adopted
Design Standards in Chapter 17.15 of this Zoning Code. Use of the design
standards in conjunction with these criteria will assist the designer in
determining the best design for any given development project.

TABLE 25-1
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Development Standard

Zone District

C

A.   Minimum Project Size, GLA

10,000 sf

B.    Minimum Lot Dimensions

   • Width

   • Depth

100 ft.

100 ft.

C.   Maximum Height (a)

45 ft.

D.   Landscaping Required

At least 5 % of the project area (exclusive of areas within a public
right of way) must be landscaped.

E.   Parking Lot Landscaping

At least 5% of parking areas (exclusive of loading areas) must be
landscaped. This landscaping may be counted toward the total site area
landscaping required in item D above.

F.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR)

No maximum floor-to-area ratio; FAR will be subject to meeting parking
and landscaping standards

G.   Minimum Front Yard Setback

   • Setback to Building

   • Setback to Parking Area

25 ft.

10 ft.

H.   Minimum Side Yard Setback

   • All Street Sides

   • All others (b)

25 ft.

10 ft.

I.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback (c)

20 ft.

Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft. = feet; GLA = gross land area
Notes:   (a)   On lots located adjacent to a residential zone district,
building height shall be limited to thirty-five (35) feet.
   (b)   Only one side yard is required. If a site adjoins a property
zoned for residential, open space, or institutional uses, then the side
yard must be provided on that side. (c) Architectural elements for
churches, such as steeples, may exceed the maximum height and shall not
to exceed seventy-five (75) feet.

 

   (b)   Parking and Loading

      Parking and loading requirements are subject to Chapters 17.65
(Parking and Loading) and 17.15 (Design Review) of this Zoning Code.

   (c)   Trash enclosures

      Trash enclosures shall be provided for any lot or parcel for the
temporary storage and collection of trash, rubbish, and/or garbage in
accordance with all of the following requirements:

      (1)   Trash enclosures may be located within a building, or if in
the open, shall be enclosed by a decorative masonry wall,
architecturally compatible with the main building. Such trash enclosure
shall include a solid gate for bin access and a separate view obscuring
pedestrian access.

      (2)   All trash enclosures visible from streets or public parking
areas shall be constructed and finished to be compatible with the
architectural details and decor of the primary structure.

      (3)   All trash enclosures shall be regularly cleaned and
maintained;

      (4)   All trash containers and trash bins shall incorporate a
tight-fitting lid;

      (5)   All trash enclosures shall be located for convenient access
by occupants of the site and vehicular access for pick-up and disposal.

      (6)   Trash enclosures are prohibited in the front setback, or any
setback areas abutting residential zones, or properties used for
residential purposes.

   (d)   Mechanical equipment, utilities, satellite dishes

      Mechanical equipment, utilities, or similar machinery located
outside of the exterior walls of any building, including roof-mounted
equipment, shall be completely screened from view from any public
right-of-way or adjacent residential uses by either view-obscuring
landscaping, or architectural features compatible with the main
structure(s). All such mechanical equipment, utilities, and satellite
dishes shall be maintained to prevent collection of trash and debris and
to avoid any unnecessary noise or vibration.

   (e)   Signs

      Signs require separate review and approval and shall be in
compliance with Chapter 17.70 (Signs).

   (f)   On-site Lighting

      (1)   All on-site lighting shall be energy efficient, stationary
and directed away from adjoining properties and public rights-of-way.

      (2)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light is emitted
above the horizontal plane of the bottom of the light fixture.

      (3)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light above 0.5
footcandle spills over onto adjacent properties and rights-of-way. There
shall be no spillover (0.0 footcandle) onto adjacent residential used or
zoned properties.

   (g)   Landscaping/Water Conservation

      All landscaping shall comply with the requirements of Chapters
17.60, Landscaping/Water Conservation and 17.15 Design Review of this
Zoning Code.

   (h)   Buffering and Screening

      (1)   A minimum eight (8) foot high masonry wall shall be provided
adjacent to any residentially zoned areas.

      (2)   A low wall, berm, or solid landscaped hedge shall be
provided between public streets and parking and driveway areas to screen
parking areas, per Chapter 17.60 (Landscaping/Water Conservation).

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]

17.25.060 Alcoholic Beverage Establishments

   The establishment, operation, and maintenance of any alcoholic
beverage establishment is subject to the following regulations:

   (a)   It is unlawful to establish an on-site alcoholic beverage
establishment for patrons of legal drinking age or older if the location
is:

      (1)   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any area zoned or used
for any church or park or any educational institution utilized by
minors; or

      (2)   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any area zoned or used
for residential purposes.

   (b)   Zoning districts in which on-site and off-site sales of
alcoholic beverages are permitted are shown in Appendix A of this Zoning
Code.

   (c)   The establishment of any alcoholic beverage establishment
includes the opening of such a business as a new business, the
relocation of such business, the conversion of an existing use or
premises to any alcoholic beverage establishment, and/or the expansion
or change of the type of alcoholic beverages to be sold at an alcoholic
beverage establishment (that is, a change in the type of retail liquor
license within a license classification).

   (d)   Notwithstanding the above provisions, any property owner or
his/her/its authorized agent may request exceptions or modifications of
the location provisions of this Section in conjunction with the required
Conditional Use Permit application. No application shall be approved
unless the findings required for a Conditional Use Permit contained in
Chapter 17.130 and the following findings are made:

      (1)   That the proposed use will not be contrary to the public
interest or injurious to nearby properties and that the spirit and
intent of this Section will be observed;

      (2)   That the proposed use will not enlarge or encourage the
development of a blighted area;

      (3)   That the establishment of an additional regulated use in the
area will not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation
nor will it interfere with any other city program; and

      (4)   That all applicable regulations of the zoning district in
which the use is permitted will be observed.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]

17.25.070 Entertainment Establishments Providing Dancing, Music, and
Similar Activities

   (a)   Noise levels shall not exceed the standards set forth in
Chapter 17.90 (Performance Standards) of this Zoning Code, when measured
at the nearest residential property line.

   (b)   Entertainment uses providing dancing, music, and similar
activities may be required to submit a Security Plan for review by the
Planning Department, the Police Department, and the Fire Department.
This Security Plan, which may be approved by the Planning Director or
his/her designee, may include information on the number and type of
security personnel to be on duty during hours of operation, the type of
equipment provided to the security personnel, and proposed methods of
coordination with public safety personnel (police and fire).

   (c)   Dancing, music, and similar entertainment uses shall not be
permitted between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.

   (d)   The City may apply additional requirements or limitations to
ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses where the use in
question relies upon a Conditional Use Permit, Temporary Use Permit, or
other discretionary permit.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]

17.25.080 Outdoor Display and Storage

   The following restrictions apply to outdoor display of goods and
materials:

   (a)   Only goods and materials sold or used on site may be stored or
displayed.

   (b)   No display shall exceed six feet (6') in height, except as
approved by a Location and Development Plan Approval, Conditional Use
Permit, or Temporary Use Permit as outlined in Chapters 17.150 (Location
and Development Plan), 17.130 (Conditional Use Permits), and
17.155 (Temporary Use Permit), respectively, of this Zoning Code.

   (c)   The outdoor display of garden equipment, supplies, and building
materials shall be permitted only within the side and rear yards.

   (d)   No outdoor display shall occupy any part of a required parking
area except by approval of a Temporary Use Permit.

   (e)   Outdoor display shall not violate clear corner area standards
of Section 17.10.080 (Clear Areas) of this Zoning Code.

   (f)   Outdoor display areas shall provide adequate security lighting.

   (g)   Goods and merchandise shall not be displayed or kept in any
required landscaped area unless approved as part of the Location and
Development Plan approval process.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]

17.25.090 Recycling Facilities

   (a)   General

      No person shall establish or operate a recycling facility without
first obtaining the Conditional Use Permit required by this Zoning Code.
Permitted recycling facilities shall comply with all applicable criteria
and standards as follows and any additional conditions which may be
established by any discretionary permit process.

   (b)   Reverse Vending Machines

      Reverse vending machines occupying up to but not more than fifty
(50) square feet of floor area within or directly adjacent to a
commercial structure shall:

      (1)   Be located within thirty feet (30') of the entrance to the
primary use and shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation;

      (2)   Not occupy parking spaces required by the primary use;

      (3)   Not require additional parking spaces;

      (4)   Not be more than eight feet (8') in height;

      (5)   Be constructed and maintained with durable waterproof and
rustproof material;

      (6)   Be clearly marked with operating instructions and the
telephone number of a responsible person to call if the machine is out
of order;

      (7)   Be maintained in a clean and litter- free condition on a
daily basis;

      (8)   Be illuminated to ensure comfortable and safe operation; and

      (9)   Be usable at least as long as the operating hours of the
primary use.

   (c)   Small Collection Recycling Facilities and Mobile Recycling
Units

      Small collection facilities and mobile recycling units occupying
less than five hundred (500) square feet of floor area shall:

      (1)   Be established in conjunction with a primary use which is in
compliance with the zoning, building, fire, and health codes of the
City;

      (2)   Occupy no more than three (3) of the parking spaces required
for the primary use, not including spaces required for the periodic
removal of containers or materials;

      (3)   Not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation;

      (4)   Accept only glass, metals, plastic containers, and paper.
Other reusable materials may be permitted if reviewed and deemed
appropriate by the Planning Director;

      (5)   Use no power driven equipment other than that required to
operate reverse vending machines;

      (6)   Be constructed and maintained with durable waterproof and
rustproof material;

      (7)   Be secure when the site is not attended;

      (8)   Be of sufficient capacity to accommodate materials collected
and the proposed collection schedule;

      (9)   Be maintained in a clear and litter-free condition on a
daily basis;

      (10)   Be clearly marked with operating instructions and a
telephone number of a responsible person to call if the facility is out
of order;

      (11)   Require no additional parking spaces; and

      (12)   Be attended during their hours of operation, which should
be at least as long as those of the primary use(s) to which they are
appurtenant.

   (d)   Large Collection Recycling Facilities

      Large collection recycling facilities covering more than five
hundred (500) square feet of floor area or established independent
shall:

      (1)   A lot proposed for a Large Collection Recycling Facility
shall maintain a three hundred foot (300') distance from a residential
used or zoned property;

      (2)   Be maintained free of litter and other undesirable
materials;

      (3)   Provide covers and secure containers for the exterior
storage of material;

      (4)   Provide one parking space for each five hundred (500) square
feet of gross floor area, plus one space for each employee and one space
for each commercial vehicle operated by the facility;

      (5)   Be attended during hours of operation, which shall be
limited to the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. daily; and

      (6)   Be operated in a manner so as not to disrupt the activities
of adjacent uses.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]

17.25.100 Additional Requirements for Service Stations

   (a)   Conditional Use Permit

      A Conditional Use Permit (CUP) shall be required for the continued
operation, or establishment of a new or expanded service station if one,
or more, of the following circumstances apply:

      (1)   Any new service station.

      (2)   An alteration, expansion, or modification in the floor area
of an existing service station. Any such alteration, expansion, or
modification shall be subject to the requirements of this Section.

      (3)   Any alteration, expansion, or modification in the land area
on which the service station is located, whether by purchase, lease,
business or lot combination or acquisition, or similar method. Any such
alteration, expansion, or modification shall be subject to the
requirements of this Section.

      (4)   The introduction of any new accessory uses permitted under
Section 17.25.020 (Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses and
Conditional Uses), and Appendix A , or introduction of alcoholic
beverage sales, per Section 17.25.060 (Alcoholic Beverage
Establishments), or any similar change in the operational
characteristics of the service station shall be subject to the
requirements of this section.

      (5)   All Conditional Use Permit (CUP) applications shall comply
with all development standards for service stations identified in
Section 17.25.100 , and all other applicable codes and regulations.

   (b)   Operational Regulations

      The following operational regulations shall apply to service
stations and accessory uses in conjunction with service stations:

      (1)   Location of Activities

         All activities and operations shall be conducted entirely
within an enclosed structure, except for the following, which shall be
permitted unless otherwise conditioned by the Conditional Use Permit
(CUP):

         A.   Sales and dispensing of motor vehicle fuel;

         B.   Incidental, minor maintenance commonly conducted at
service islands, such as dispensing of air and water, replacement of
windshield wipers, fuses, and lamps, and replenishing motor vehicle
fluids and lubricants.

      (2)   Parking and Vehicle Storage

         A.   Off-street parking shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 17.65 (Parking and Loading).

         B.   No vehicles or equipment may be stored outside. All
vehicles being serviced or waiting to be serviced shall be stored
indoors. Vehicles waiting for same day service may be parked only in
parking spaces and may not be left outdoors overnight.

         C.   The parking of vehicles and equipment for purposes of sale
is prohibited.

         D.   The storage of rental vehicles shall not occupy any
parking space provided to meet the parking requirements of the service
station or any other accessory use.

         E.   No vehicles shall be parked or stored in the public
right-of-way.

         F.   Fuel and product delivery trucks shall not obstruct the
public right-of-way during delivery or create any vehicle stacking on
the street. A service station attendant shall be responsible for
monitoring and directing traffic during fuel or product deliveries to
ensure that no adverse impacts are created.

      (3)   Signs

         Signs shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 17.70
(Signs).

   (c)   Design and Development Regulations (also see Chapter 17.15).

      (1)   The following design and development regulations shall apply
to any new service station and to any existing service station meeting
any of the criteria specified in Chapter 17.130 (Conditional Use
Permit).

      (2)   All service station sites shall front on streets designated
as Super Arterial, Major Arterial, or Major Collector on the Circulation
Element Map, Figure V-4 of the General Plan.

      (3)   The minimum lot size for service stations is 20,000 square
feet.

      (4)   All service stations shall have a minimum street frontage of
one-hundred twenty-five (125) feet.

      (5)   The following setbacks shall be maintained:

 

Structure

Required Setback (Feet) Interior

Required Setback (Feet) Abutting a Street

Pump Islands*

10

20

Canopies**

5

5

Air and water dispensers

5

10

Automobile carwash,

maintenance

and repair**

Per Table 25-1

Per Table 25-1

Retail and office**

Per Table 25-1

Per Table 25-1

*   All pump islands shall be covered by a canopy.

**   All buildings and structures shall be set back twenty (20) feet
from Residentially zoned properties, or properties used for residential
purposes.

 

      (6)   Access

         A.   Driveways shall be designed and located to ensure safe and
efficient movement of traffic on and off the site to and from the lane
of traffic nearest the curb. All driveways shall be located and
constructed according to the City standards.

         B.   Driveways for service stations which are developed as part
of, or in conjunction with adjacent uses shall be compatible with the
overall circulation of adjacent uses.

         C.   On-site driveways shall be a minimum of twenty-six (26)
feet wide for two-way traffic or twenty (20) feet wide for one-way
traffic.

         D.   Provisions for on-site queuing lanes shall be made.

         E.   Queuing lanes shall not interfere with access to required
parking spaces and driveways.

      (7)   All drainage to the street shall be by underground
structures to avoid drainage across City walks or drive aprons, and
shall be subject to approval by the City Engineer. Drainage shall be
handled in a manner that will not allow fuel to drain into any city or
public storm drain system (if present). Fuel spill must be able to be
contained on-site.

      (8)   The following use classifications shall be permitted as
accessory uses to a service station, subject to the approval of
Conditional Use Permit (CUP), or an amendment to an existing CUP,
pursuant to Chapter 17.130 (Conditional Use Permits).

         A.   Convenience markets

         B.   Automated or Hand Car Wash

         C.   Minor Auto Repair / Service (all work to be performed
indoors)

         D.   Electronic equipment installation (all work to be
performed indoors)

         E.   Rental of Trailer, Trucks and Vehicles shall be permitted
as an accessory use subject to the following:

            i.   The rental equipment does not occupy or interfere with
the required parking for the service station.

            ii.   The rental operation is clearly incidental to and
secondary to the primary use; and

            iii.   Rental equipment shall not obstruct vehicle or
pedestrian access or line-of-sight

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]

17.25.110 Drive-Through Facilities

   The purpose of this subsection is to ensure that drive-through
facilities do not impose adverse impacts on adjacent uses or the
surrounding neighborhood because of customer or employee parking demand,
traffic generation, noise, light or litter. Review of proposed
development plans shall check consistency with the goals, objectives and
policies of the General Plan and compliance with the requirements of
this Zoning Ordinance.

   (a)   Location Standards

      (1)   Drive-through businesses shall not disrupt the pedestrian
activity of adjacent or nearby commercial uses or commercially zoned
property.

      (2)   The use shall not interfere with the normal activity of
adjacent or adjoining properties or potential for planned commercial
development.

      (3)   Drive-through businesses shall not locate within 150 feet of
residential used property or residential zoning district, without
issuance of a Conditional Use Permit.

   (b)   Development Standards

      (1)   Access

         A.   Each developed site shall not have more than one (1) point
of access per street frontage.

         B.   Drive-through aisles shall not take direct access from a
public street or thoroughfare, but instead take access from a parking
area or on-site drive aisles.

      (2)   Hours

         A.   A drive-through located adjacent to any residential use or
district shall not open prior to 6:00 am or after 10:00 p.m.

         B.   The approval of administrative or discretionary permits
may further restrict the hours of operation for such use when adjacent
to residential uses or residential districts and where modified hours
are necessary to mitigate potential adverse impacts related to noise,
traffic, or lighting.

      (3)   Drive-through Lane/Stacking for food establishments

         A.   Drive-through lanes shall have a minimum length of 120
feet from entry to pick-up window, accommodating six (6) vehicles.

         B.   The lane shall have a minimum width of ten (10) feet on
the straight section and twelve (12) feet on curved sections.

         C.   Design of drive-through lanes shall incorporate a
combination of landscaping, low screen walls, and trellises.

         D.   Drive-through lanes shall be situated to best separate
pedestrian and vehicular uses, including avoidance of walkways and
designated pedestrian pathways.

         E.   A physical barrier with a low wall or solid landscaped
hedge 36" to 42" in height shall separate the drive-through lane from
other parking and circulation areas and shall also be required adjacent
to public rights-of way, per Chapter 17.60 (Landscaping/Water
Conservation).

      (4)   Drive-through Lane/Stacking for non-food establishments

         A.   Drive-through lanes shall have a minimum length of 60 feet
from entry to pick-up window, accommodating three (3) vehicles.

         B.   The lane shall have a minimum width of ten (10) feet on
the straight section and twelve (12) feet on curved sections.

         C.   Design of drive-through lanes shall incorporate a
combination of landscaping, low screen walls, and trellises.

         D.   Drive-through lanes shall be situated to best separate
pedestrian and vehicular uses, including avoidance of walkways and
designated pedestrian pathways.

         E.   A physical barrier with a low wall or solid landscaped
hedge 36" to 42" in height shall separate the drive-through lane from
other parking and circulation areas and shall also be required adjacent
to public rights-of way.

      (5)   Location and Setbacks. Drive-through lanes shall not be
located within required setbacks or required landscape areas. The lanes
shall comply with the Parking Area setback standard per Table 25-1(G).

      (6)   Noise. Noise emanating from sound systems, including
intercom and public address systems, shall not be audible beyond the
property line.

      (7)   Signs. All signs shall conform to Chapter 17.70, Signs.
Drive-through businesses within or abutting a commercial shopping center
must comply with the sign program for the commercial center. For
drive-through businesses abutting a commercial shopping center, signs
shall be consistent and compatible with the center. In addition,
drive-through businesses may have two (2) menu signs with a maximum
height of six (6) feet and a maximum sign area of twenty-four (24)
square feet.

      (8)   Landscaping/Water Conservation. Berming and landscaping
shall be provided to screen the entire drive-through area. Landscaping
requirements shall be subject to Chapter 17.60, Landscaping/Water
Conservation and Chapter 17.15 of this Zoning Code.

   (c)   Permits Required

      The following review process shall be followed:

      (1)   A Conditional Use Permit and Location and Development Plan
are required for any drive-through facility closer than 150 feet to a
residential use or residentially zoned property. The distance is
measured from property line to property line of the subject
drive-through facility to the residential lot or residentially zoned
property; or

      (2)   A Location and Development Plan is required for all other
proposed drive-through facilities in compliance with this Zoning Code.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]

CHAPTER 17.30
BUSINESS AND MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS

   17.30.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.30.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and
Conditional Uses

   17.30.030   Location and Development Plan

   17.30.040   Development Standards

   17.30.050   Parking and Loading

   17.30.070   Outdoor Uses, Display, and Storage

   17.30.080   Manufacturing/Industrial Condominiums

   17.30.090   Requirements for Recycling Facilities, Service Stations,
and Drive-through Facilities

17.30.010 Intent and Purpose

   The Business and Manufacturing districts are established to
facilitate the development of larger-scale businesses involved in
manufacturing, distribution, or services, as well as office and retail
uses in some areas. Toward this end, the following districts are
established:

   (a)   Airport Development District (ADD)

      The Airport Development District (ADD) provides for a wide range
of nonresidential uses, generally encompassing light and heavy
industrial, retail, office, and other commercial uses that are oriented
around airport operation, services, industries and businesses. The
Airport Development District is intended to provide maximum flexibility
to the City, landowners, and tenants in establishing and operating
non-residential uses. Development is expected to be predominated by
buildings of one (1) or two (2) stories, but may attain any heights up
to fifty-five (55) feet . In some cases, retail uses will be on the
ground floor, with offices above. All uses in this district will be
required to execute aviation easements.

   (b)   Light Manufacturing (LM)

      The Light Manufacturing (LM) district provides for a more limited
range of uses, including only light industrial and manufacturing uses
which benefit from separation from residential, office, and retail
districts.

   (c)   Manufacturing/Industrial (MI)

      The Manufacturing/Industrial (MI) district provides for a wide
range of industrial uses, including light and heavy industrial and
manufacturing uses. Adult businesses, as defined in Chapter 17.85 of
this Code, may be located only in the MI district.

   (d)   Business Park (BP)

      The Business Park land use designation allows for employment uses
that may be related and supportive of SCLA along with synergistic uses
like research and design, medical and professional offices,
schools/studios for professional and business advancement, and health
and fitness facilities to attract employment activity from beyond the
City’s boundary.

   (e)   Light Manufacturing Cannabis Only (LMCO)

      The Light Manufacturing Cannabis Only (LMCO) district provides a
cannabis only use that will include cannabis cultivation, manufacturing,
distribution/transportation, testing, nursery, and other related
cannabis uses or process as may be defined by the City and State of
California.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 586, Section 3, 5/9/18; Ord.
No. 640, Section 3, 4/12/23.]

17.30.020 Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and
Conditional Uses

   (a)   Appendix A of this Development Code indicates the uses
permitted in the industrial zone districts. Industrial uses represent
the primary permitted uses, although other uses are allowed as
accessory, conditionally permitted, and temporary uses, as indicated in
Appendix A .

   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the
review requirements and conditions contained in Chapter 17.130
(Conditional Use Permits) of this Zoning Code. Temporary uses and
conditions are subject to the review requirements and conditions
contained in Chapter 17.155 (Temporary Use Permit). Also, certain uses
such as churches and businesses involved in the sale of alcoholic
beverages may be subject to Special Use Standards outlined in Chapter
17.80 .

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 581, Sections 3, 4,
12/13/17.]

17.30.030 Location and Development Plan

   Location and Development Plan approval, as described in Chapter
17.150 (Location and Development Plan) and Chapter 17.100
(Administrative Procedures), is required for all industrial development
projects, except as otherwise permitted by this code.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14.]

17.30.040 Development Standards

   (a)   General Standards

      Table 30-1 provides the development standards for the Airport
Development District, the Light Manufacturing District, the
Manufacturing/Industrial District, and the Business Park District.
Design Review and Standards for Industrial Districts can be found in
Section 17.15.070 of this Zoning Code.

   (b)   Building Materials

      Building Material requirements can be found in Section 17.15.070
of this Zoning Code.

   (c)   Airport Development Standards

      Construction within the 65 CNEL Noise Contour of the Airport will
be required to conform to construction standards of state and federal
guidelines including the Comprehensive Airport Land Use Plan (CALUP)
standards. Construction of buildings and structures are limited by the
height and lighting requirements of the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA)
Regulations Part 77. Aviation easements will be required for each
development.

   (d)   Trash enclosures

      Trash enclosures shall be provided for any lot or parcel for the
temporary storage and collection of trash, rubbish, and/or garbage
(hereafter “trash facilities”) in accordance with all of the following
requirements:

      (1)   Trash enclosures may be located within a building, or if in
the open, shall be enclosed by a decorative masonry wall,
architecturally compatible with the main building. Such trash enclosure
shall include a solid gate for bin access and a separate view obscuring
pedestrian access.

      (2)   All trash enclosures visible from streets or public parking
areas shall be constructed and finished to be compatible with the
architectural details and decor of the primary structure.

      (3)   All trash enclosures shall be regularly cleaned and
maintained;

      (4)   All trash containers and trash bins shall incorporate a
tight-fitting lid;

      (5)   All trash enclosures shall be located for convenient access
by occupants of the site and vehicular access for pick-up and disposal,
but shall be either in the rear or on the side of the building.

      (6)   Trash enclosures are prohibited in the front setback, or any
setback areas abutting residential zones, or properties used for
residential purposes.

   (e)   Buffering and Screening

      (1)   A minimum eight (8) foot high masonry wall shall be provided
adjacent to residential used or zoned areas.

      (2)   A low wall, berm, or solid landscaped hedge 36" to 42" in
height shall be provided between public streets and parking and driveway
areas to screen parking areas, per Chapter 17.60 (Landscape/Water
Conservation).

      (3)   See screening requirements for outdoor uses, display, and
storage in Section 17.30.070 .

   (f)   On-site Lighting

      (1)   All on-site lighting shall be energy efficient, stationary
and directed away from adjoining properties and public rights-of-way.

      (2)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light is emitted
above the horizontal plane of the bottom of the light fixture.

      (3)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light above 0.5
foot-candle spills over onto adjacent properties and rights-of-way.
There shall be no spillover (0.0 foot-candle) onto adjacent residential
used or zoned properties.

   (g)   Noise

      Noise requirements are subject to Chapter 17.90 (Performance
Standards) of this Zoning Code.

   (h)   Landscaping/Water Conservation

      All landscaping shall comply with the requirements of Chapters
17.60, Landscaping/Water Conservation and 17.15 Design Review of this
Zoning Code.

   (i)   Signs

      All signs shall conform to Chapter 17.70 (Signs) of this
Development Code.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14.]

17.30.050 Parking and Loading

   Parking and loading requirements are subject to Chapter 17.65
(Parking and Loading) and Chapter 17.15 (Design Review) of this Zoning
Code. Where a mix of use types is proposed in the Airport Development
District (ADD) (e.g., retail, office, and manufacturing), an alternative
parking standard may be approved by the Planning Director subject to
approval of a Location and Development Plan (LDP) and Variance. Changes
in parking standards must be accompanied by a parking analysis, which
will be reviewed by the City Traffic Engineer.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14.]

17.30.070 Outdoor Uses, Display and Storage

   (a)   Outdoor Uses and Storage shall be located behind the building
or screened from public rights-of-way by a minimum eight (8) foot high
solid, masonry wall, which shall be setback from the public right-of-way
in accordance with the setbacks for buildings set forth in Table 30-1 -
Development Standards.

   (b)   Storage shall not exceed the height of the wall along public
rights-of-way

   (c)   Access gates along any masonry wall around outdoor uses or
storage areas shall be solid and the same height as the wall.

   (d)   Outdoor Storage areas shall be treated to control dust and
driveways in outdoor storage areas shall be paved.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14.]

17.30.080 Manufacturing/Industrial Condominiums

   Any proposed subdivision of a Manufacturing/Industrial use for
condominium purposes (either new construction or conversion) shall
require a parcel map and shall be consistent with the State Subdivision
Map Act as contained in the Government Code and be in accordance with
the requirements of Adelanto City Ordinance No. 277U and Ordinance No.
298, or their successors.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14.]

TABLE 30-1
ADD, LM, MI, AND BP DEVELOPMENT ZONE DISTRICTS - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Development Standard

Zone Districts

ADD

LM/LMCO

MI*

BP

Development Standard

Zone Districts

ADD

LM/LMCO

MI*

BP

A.   Minimum Lot Size

20,000 sf (a)

B.   Minimum Lot Dimensions

   • Width

   • Depth

100 ft.

100 ft.

Minimum lot dimensions may be reduced through the use of a
condominium-type project where areas smaller than the minimum standards
are sold, leased, or rented to individual users.

C.   Maximum Building Height

55 ft. or per Comprehensive Airport Land Use Plan (CALUP)

55 ft.

North of Holly Road and correctional facilities: 60 ft.

South of Holly Road: 75 ft. (or per Comprehensive Airport Land Use Plan
[CALUP])

50 ft. (or per Comprehensive Airport Land Use Plan [CALUP])

D.   Landscaping Required

At least 5% of the project area (exclusive of areas within a public
right of way) must be landscaped.

E.   Parking Lot Landscaping

At least 10% of parking areas (exclusive of loading areas) must be
landscaped. This landscaping may be counted toward the total site area
landscaping required in item E above.

F.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR)

No Maximum Floor Area Ratio. FAR will be subject to meeting parking and
landscaping standards.

0.75 FAR. FAR will be subject to meeting parking and landscaping
standards

G.   Minimum Front Yard Setback

   • Setback to Building

   • Setback to Parking Area

25 ft.

10 ft.

H.   Minimum Side Yard Setbacks

   • All Street Sides -Setback to Building

   • All Street Sides - Setback to Parking

   • All Others

   • Abutting residential district

25 ft.

10 ft.

0 ft.

Twenty-five (25) feet landscaped setback for buildings up to thirty-five
(35) feet tall. Buildings over thirty-five (35) feet shall be setback
two (2) additional feet for each additional one (1) foot height of
building over thirty-five (35) feet. May be reduced to zero (0) if
approved by the City and the Fire Department.

I.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback

   •Abutting residential district

   •Street Side - Setback to Building

   •Street Side - Setback to Parking

   •All Other

Twenty-five (25) feet landscaped setback for buildings up to thirty-five
(35) feet tall. Buildings over thirty-five (35) feet shall be setback
two (2) additional feet for each additional one (1) foot height of
building over thirty-five (35) feet. May be reduced to zero (0) if
approved by the City and the Fire Department.

25 ft.

10 ft.

0 ft.

Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft. = feet Notes:

(a) Except in a condominium development, where a different minimum lot
size standard may be provided.

 

[Ord. No. 583, Section 4, 2/28/18; Ord. No. 586, Section 4, 5/9/18; Ord.
No. 640, Section 3, 4/12/23.]

17.30.090 Requirements for Recycling Facilities, Service Stations and
Drive-through Facilities

   The requirements of Sections 17.25.090, Recycling Facilities;
17.25.100, Service Stations; and 17.25.110, Drive-Through Facilities
shall also apply in the Light Manufacturing, Manufacturing/Industrial,
Business Park and Airport Development Districts.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14.]

CHAPTER 17.35
PUBLIC FACILITIES AND PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT

   17.35.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.35.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and
Conditional Uses

   17.35.030   Location and Development Plan Approval Required

   17.35.040   Development Standards

17.35.010 Intent and Purpose

   The intent of this Chapter is to create zoning districts which will
identify and preserve public facilities. Toward this end, two zone
districts are established as follows:

   (a)   Public Facility (PF)

      The Public Facility (PF) district applies to all public facilities
in Adelanto, including City, County, and other government properties
south of Holly Road.

   (b)   Public Utility (PU)

      The Public Utility (PU) district encompasses a variety of public
facilities in Adelanto, including City, County, and other government
properties north of Holly Road.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit K, 9/10/14.]

17.35.020 Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and
Conditional Uses

   (a)   Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zone District of this Zoning
Code indicates the uses permitted in the PU and PF zone districts. Only
public facilities and utilities are permitted as primary uses, although
other uses are allowed as accessory, conditionally permitted, and
temporary uses, as indicated in Appendix A.

   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the
review requirements and conditions contained in Chapter 17.130 of this
Zoning Code. Temporary uses and conditions are subject to the review
requirements and conditions contained in Chapter 17.155.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit K, 9/10/14.]

17.35.030 Location and Development Plan Approval Required

   A Location and Development Plan Approval, as described in Chapter
17.150, is required for all projects in the PU and PF districts
involving the construction of new structures and major new buildings
greater than two-hundred (200) square feet in size.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit K, 9/10/14]

17.35.040 Development Standards

   Table 35-1 indicates the development standards for the Public Utility
and Public Facilities zone districts.

TABLE 35-1
PF AND PU DISTRICTS - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Development Standard

Zone District

PF

PU

Development Standard

Zone District

PF

PU

A.   Minimum Lot Size

10,000 sf

N/A

B.   Minimum Lot Dimensions

None

None

C.   Maximum Building Height

40 ft. (a)

40 ft. (a)

D.   Landscaping Required

At least 15% of the project area (exclusive of areas in a public right
of way) must be landscaped.

E.   Parking Lot Landscaping

At least 5% of parking areas must be landscaped. This landscaping may be
counted toward the total site area landscaping required in item D,
above.

F.   Minimum Front Yard Setback

   • Setback to Buildings

   • Setback to Parking

25 ft.

25 ft.

25 ft.

25 ft.

G.   Minimum Side Yard Setbacks (a)

   • Street Side

   • All Others

25 ft.

15 ft.

15 ft.

10 ft.

H.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback

15 ft.

20 ft.

Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft. = feet

(a) Height may be exceeded, up to a maximum of eighty (80) feet, by
towers, steeples, or other similar architectural features, subject to
the requirements of any avignation agreement and the CALUP.

 

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit K, 9/10/14.]

CHAPTER 17.40
OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC LAND AND SCHOOLS AND GREENBELT CORRIDOR DISTRICTS

   17.40.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.40.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and
Conditional Uses

   17.40.030   Development Standards

17.40.010 Intent and Purpose

   The Open Space, Public Land and Schools (OS) and Greenbelt Corridors
(DE and UE) districts are established to preserve natural desert habitat
resources, drainages, utility easements, and for outdoor recreation,
both active and passive, public lands and schools. This zone district
applies to public lands which have been acquired in fee ownership by the
City and other public agencies. Toward this end, the following districts
are established:

   (a)   Open Space, Public Land and Schools (OS)

      The Open Space, Public Land and Schools (OS) district provides for
undeveloped areas with wildlife habitat and/or natural resource value,
renewable energy uses and recreational uses. Land designated as OS south
of Holly Road is also suitable for public lands and schools. In this
district, one residential dwelling unit is permitted per 50 acres or as
an existing, approved use.

   (b)   Greenbelt Corridor: Drainage Easement (DE)

      The Greenbelt Corridor: Drainage Easement (DE) district provides
for storm water drainage and storm water detention uses that may also
contain bicycle and hiking trails, and recreational parking areas.

   (c)   Greenbelt Corridor: Utility Easement (UE)

      The Greenbelt Corridor: Utility Easement (UE) district provides
for transmission and power lines uses that may also contain bicycle and
hiking trails and recreational park areas.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit L, 9/10/14.]

17.40.020 Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and
Conditional Uses

   (a)   Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zone District of this Zoning
Code indicates the uses permitted in the OS, DE and UE zone districts.

   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the
review requirements and conditions contained in Chapter 17.130 of this
Zoning Code. Temporary uses and conditions are subject to the review
requirements and conditions contained in Chapter 17.155. Also, certain
uses such as churches be subject to Special Use Standards outlined in
Chapter 17.80.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit L, 9/10/14.]

17.40.030 Development Standards

   No specific development standards apply to public facility buildings
constructed within the OS, DE and UE zones. Buildings shall be designed
and constructed to reflect the character of the land in which they are
located and to ensure compatibility with development on adjacent
properties.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit L, 9/10/14.]

CHAPTER 17.45
AIRPORT PARK OVERLAY DISTRICT (APO)

   17.45.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.45.015   Applicability

   17.45.020   Regulations

   17.45.030   Maximum Height

   17.45.040   Special Considerations in the Airport Park Overlay
District

   17.45.050   Recorded Deed Notices

17.45.010 Intent and Purpose.

The Airport Park Overlay District designated herein by the symbol "APO",
is intended to enhance safety to aviators and the general public by
informing and notifying property owners of potential noise and safety
issues generated from the Adelanto Airport Park. The purpose of the
Airport Park Overlay District is to promote safe and harmonious
development of those areas located within the Airport Park Overlay
District as shown on the City of Adelanto General Plan Land Use/Zoning
Map.

The guidelines in this Chapter help minimize the exposure to high noise
levels and accident hazards generated by airport operations and
encourage future development that is compatible with the continued
operation of the airport. This is achieved by promoting commercial and
industrial developments that are capable of strengthening the local
economy and enhancing the quality of life of residents, as well as
ensuring that land use conflicts are minimized and that long term
interest for industrial projects are maintained. The Airport Park
Overlay District identifies potential restrictions and limitations on
uses and heights of structures and other objects near airports in order
to protect airport airspace and people on the ground.

[Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09.]

17.45.015 Applicability.

The Airport Park Overlay District applies to those areas adjacent to the
Airport Park District and within the boundaries shown on the City of
Adelanto General Plan Land Use/Zoning Map. Such areas shall be
identified on the City of Adelanto General Plan Land Use/Zoning Map by
the letters "APO."

The Airport Park Overlay District is a supplement to the basic
underlying land use/zoning district and shall be applied to those
properties that are determined to be within the designated Overlay
District. The provision of this Chapter shall apply to all new
development within the Airport Park Overlay District and any addition,
remodeling, relocation, or construction requiring a building or grading
permit.

[Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09.]

17.45.020 Regulations.

Whenever any property on the City of Adelanto General Plan Land
Use/Zoning Map is identified within the Airport Park Overlay District,
the provisions of this Chapter shall apply concerning uses and height
limitation for any buildings or structures located, or to be located
upon such property. The regulations in this Chapter shall be in addition
to the regulations in the underlying zone.

[Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09.]

17.45.030 Maximum Height.

The Airport Park Overlay District is intended to identify recommended
heights of buildings and structures within the Overlay areas to reduce
the potential impacts of noise and safety hazards associated with the
close proximity of the airport. Structures or objects within the Airport
Park Overlay District should be reviewed as to whether they would
conflict with Federal Aviation Administration Regulations Part 77 or
impede visibility or access to open areas providing emergency landing
areas for aircraft.

[Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09.]

17.45.040 Special Considerations in the Airport Park Overlay District.

Particularly hazardous land uses should be restricted in all designated
airport overlay zones. These include those which would cause smoke,
water vapor, or light interference impeding the pilot's ability to see
the airfield. Other uses which cause electrical interference with
aircraft navigational and communications equipment also should be
prohibited in the airport vicinity. Other inappropriate uses include
those which attract large numbers of birds. Examples include landfills
and some types of food processing plants involving outdoor storage of
grain and other raw materials or food by-products.

The California Airport Land Use Planning Handbook offers the
descriptions of land uses which are considered hazardous and should be
restricted within all airport safety zones. These land uses include:

      1.   Any use which would direct a steady light or flashing light
of red, white, green, or amber colors associated with airport operations
toward an aircraft engaged in an initial straight climb following
takeoff or toward an aircraft engaged in a straight final approach
toward a landing at the airport, other than an FAA approved navigational
signal light or visual approach slope indicator;

      2.   Any use which would cause sunlight to be reflected toward an
aircraft engaged in an initial straight climb following takeoff or
toward an aircraft engaged in a straight final approach toward a landing
at an airport;

      3.   Any use which would generate smoke or which would attract
large concentrations of birds, or which may otherwise affect safe air
navigation within this area;

      4.   Any use which would generate electrical interference that
would be detrimental to the operation of aircraft and/or aircraft
instrumentation; and

      5.   Any land use involving, as the primary activity, the
manufacture, storage, or distribution of explosives or flammable or
hazardous materials.

[Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09.]

17.45.050   Recorded Deed Notices.

All properties proposed for new development within the Airport Park
Overlay District and any addition, remodeling, relocation, or
construction requiring a building or grading permit shall record a deed
notice prior to issuance of the building or grading permit. The intent
is to ensure that property owners and prospective buyers of airport area
property are informed about impacts of airport operations on the
property and conditions that may affect the property. A deed notice
shall be substantially as described below:

"Chapters 17.22 (Airport Park) and 17.45 (Airport Park Overlay District)
of the Adelanto Zoning Code identify an airport influence area for the
Adelanto Airport. Properties within this area are subject to overflights
by aircraft using this airport and, as a result, occupants may
experience inconvenience, annoyance, or discomfort arising from the
noise of such operations and potential increased risks associated with
aircraft operations. Therefore, these properties may be subject to
certain limitations on uses and heights of buildings in close proximity
to the airport."

[Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09.]

CHAPTER 17.46
AFFORDABLE HOUSING OVERLAY DISTRICT (AHO)

   17.46.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.46.015   Applicability

   17.46.020   Regulations

17.46.010   Intent and Purpose

The Affordable Housing Overlay District designated herein by the symbol
“AHO”, is intended to promote the development of affordable housing. The
purpose of the Affordable Housing Overlay District is to promote housing
development in those areas located within the Affordable Housing Overlay
District as shown on the City of Adelanto General Plan Land Use/Zoning
Map.

[Ord. No. 652, Exhibit 1, 7/24/24.]

17.46.015   Applicability

The Affordable Housing Overlay District applies to those areas
identified on the City of Adelanto General Plan Land Use/Zoning Map by
the letters “AHO.”

Specific provisions of the Affordable Housing Overlay District supersede
those of the underlying land use/zoning district and apply to those
properties that are within the designated Overlay District. The
provisions in this Chapter apply to all new development within the
Affordable Housing Overlay District and any addition, remodeling,
relocation, or construction requiring a building or grading permit.
Provisions of the underlying land use/zoning district not superseded by
provisions in this Chapter remain in force.

[Ord. No. 652, Exhibit 1, 7/24/24.]

17.46.020   Regulations

The following provisions supersede those of the underlying land
use/zoning district:

   (a)   In residential zones (not including MU or AP zones),
regulations applicable to the R3-30 zone shall apply, unless superseded
by provisions in this Chapter.

   (b)   All development shall include residential dwelling units at a
minimum density of twenty (20) units per net acre or a maximum of two
thousand one hundred and seventy-eight (2,178) square feet of lot area
per unit.

   (c)   In underlying land use/zoning districts with a maximum density,
the maximum density is the density of the underlying zone or thirty (30)
dwelling units per acre, whichever is greater. As in all districts,
density bonus may increase the maximum density.

   (d)   Owner-occupied and rental multifamily residential use shall be
reviewed through a “by-right” ministerial process (set forth in Section
17.100.090 Ministerial Review) for developments that include at least
twenty percent (20%) of units affordable to lower-income households.

[Ord. No. 652, Exhibit 1, 7/24/24.]

CHAPTER 17.50
MIXED USE DISTRICT

   17.50.010    Intent

   17.50.020    Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Conditional Uses, and
Temporary Uses

   17.50.030    Development Standards

   17.50.040    Minimum Design Standards

   17.50.050    Accessory Uses and Structures

   17.50.060    Attached Single-Family and Multi-Family
Housing-Additional Standards

   17.50.070    Outdoor Storage

   17.50.080    Parking Standards

17.50.010   Intent

   With the desire to achieve sustainable development forms, the Mixed
Use land use category is established. Mixed-use development approaches
offer opportunities for people to live close to work or near transit
stops, walk to neighborhood stores and parks, enjoy indoor and outdoor
entertainment close to home, and experience vibrant pedestrian
districts. The Mixed Use designation includes two activity areas: Town
Center and Visitor Serving Center. The Mixed Use designation is to allow
mixed use development, thereby, providing maximum opportunity and
flexibility for a broad array of long term residential, commercial,
institutional, and business uses within walking distance to multiple
land use opportunities. The mixed use concept is embraced for the Town
Center Mixed Use and the Visitor Serving Center Mixed Use areas.

   The Mixed Use designation encourages a mixture of compatible and
synergistic land uses, such as residential with compatible
non-residential uses. Residential live-work, single family attached
residences, and multi-family units are permitted. The Mixed Use
residential land use is a high density category, and may include compact
residential lots, attached homes, condominiums, multi-family - for-sale
and rental units located conveniently to services and transportation.
Ideally, these neighborhoods will have convenient access to recreational
and daycare facilities. Compatible non-residential uses including, but
are not limited to: civic and community facilities, City Hall, Stater
Bros. Stadium, visitor serving accommodations, senior center, Central
Park, farmer’s markets, museums, libraries, movie theaters, shopping and
dining, and employment opportunities in medical/business offices. Toward
this end, the following districts are established:

   (a)   Mixed Use: Town Center

      The Town Center is envisioned to be the heart or main focal point
of the City. It will include a “main street” and a downtown mixed use
area that allows for a variety of uses including residential. Uses in
this zoning district must comply with the Airport Safety review process
and the SCLA Land Use Plan.

   (b)   Mixed Use: Visitor Serving Center

      The Visitor Serving Center area will provide an opportunity for
hotel accommodations and resort facilities related to Stater Bros.’
Stadium and serve as a venue for entertainment uses such as community
events, concerts, and festivals.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14.]

17.50.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Conditional Uses, and
Temporary Uses

   (a)   Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zone District of this Zoning
Code permits a range of uses including, but not limited to the
following:

      •   Residential uses (compact lots, attached homes condominiums,
etc.)

      •   Civic and community facilities

      •   Eating and drinking establishments

      •   Offices

      •   Retail

      •   Service Stations

      •   Auto Service and Repair

      •   Automobile Service (lubrication, tune-ups, emission tests,
batteries, mufflers, etc. No use of impact wrenches or other equipment
that could create noise impacts; no overnight outside storage or
parking; paint, body work, upholstery prohibited)

      •   Automobile Minor Repair (brakes, tires, radiators, electrical,
etc. No overnight outside storage or parking; paint, body work,
upholstery prohibited)

      •   Automobile Paint, Body, and Upholstery Shops

      •   Restaurant, Drive-Thru 2 , no alcohol sales

      •   Mini-Warehouses/Storage Facilities/Recreational Vehicle
Storage

   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the
review requirements and conditions contained in Chapter 17.130 of this
Zoning Code. Temporary uses are subject to the review requirements and
conditions contained in Chapter 17.155 . Also, certain other uses such
as antennas may be subject to Special Use Standards outlined in Chapter
17.80 , subject to the special height limitations contained in Table
22-1 , Section 17.22.040 (a).

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 600, Section 3, 5/8/19; Ord.
No. 635, Section 3, 10/14/22.; Ord. No. 641, Section 3, 5/10/23; Ord.
No. 654, Section 3, 10/23/24.]

17.50.030   Development Standards

   (a)   General Standards

      Table 50-1 provides the development standards for the Mixed Use
District.

TABLE 50-1
MU ZONE DISTRICT - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Development Standard

Zone District

MU

Development Standard

Zone District

MU

A.    Minimum Project Size, GLA

10,000 sf

B.    Minimum Lot Dimensions

   Width

   Depth

100 ft.

100 ft.

C.   Maximum Building Height

60 feet

D.   Landscaping Required

At least 5% of the project area (exclusive of areas within a public
right-of-way) must be landscaped.

E.   Parking Lot Landscaping

At least 5% of parking areas (exclusive of loading areas) must be
landscaped. This landscaping may be counted toward the total site area
landscaping required in item D above.

F.   Minimum Floor Area Ratio (FAR)

0.45 FAR for mixed use (4 stories), 0.35 for single use residential (2
stories), and 0.25 for single use commercial (2 stories). FAR will be
subject to meeting parking and landscaping standards.

G.   Minimum Front Yard Setback

   Setback to Buildings

   Setback to Parking

0 ft.

10 ft.

H.   Minimum Side yard Setback (a)

   Street Side

   All Others

0 ft.

10 ft.

I.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback

0 ft.

 

Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft. = feet; GLA = gross land area

Notes:

(a)   On lots located adjacent to a residential zone district, building
height shall be limited to thirty-five (35) feet.

(b)   Only one side yard is required. If a site adjoins a property zoned
for residential, open space, or institutional uses, then the side yard
must be provided on that side.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 589, Section 3, 7/25/18.]

17.50.040   Minimum Design Standards

   The following minimum design standards shall apply to all
construction projects, within the Mixed Use District.

   (a)   All development within the Mixed Use District shall adhere to
the intent of the development standards provided in the Adelanto North
2035 Comprehensive Sustainable Plan (Plan 2035). Where there is a
conflict between the guidance of this section and that of the Plan 2035,
Plan 2035 shall prevail.

   (b)   All primary single family residences shall have a minimum gross
floor area of one thousand (1,000) square feet. The minimum dwelling
unit width and depth shall be twenty (20) feet, measured from the
exterior of the structure and excluding garages, porches, patios, eaves,
cabanas, and bay windows.

   (c)   Utility hookups shall be provided along with a designated
laundry space, for residential structures, to accommodate installation
of a clothes washer and dryer. This laundry space and utility hookups
shall be provided within the primary residential structure or within an
enclosed accessory structure.

   (d)   Siding material shall consist of stucco, wood, brick, stone,
decorative concrete block, or powder coated (colored) architectural
metal. Synthetic materials of a similar appearance and equivalent
durability shall be permitted, subject to the approval of the Community
Development Director. Exterior siding shall extend to a point at or near
grade. However, if an approved solid wood, metal, concrete, or masonry
perimeter foundation is used, the siding need not extend below the top
of the foundation.

   (e)   Roofing materials shall be a minimum Class “A” as defined by
the Uniform Building Code and shall be architectural metal, such as
standing seam metal, or concrete tile, or equivalent.

   (f)   Areas for trash receptacles and recycling containers shall be
provided as required by the City of Adelanto.

   (g)   Architectural Design

      Any new building or structure, any addition to an existing
building or structure, and installation or construction of any site
improvements shall be designed to create a unified functional and
comprehensive site plan. The improvements shall have an integrated
architectural theme that is compatible with and will complement and
enhance the subject and surrounding properties.

      1.   Residential Structures

         •   Residential structures shall include architectural
features, such as those listed below. Furthermore, hangars shall be
architecturally compatible with the residential structure.

         •   Low roof pitch

         •   Dormers

         •   Metal/tile roofs

         •   Wood columns

         •   Architectural and structural braces

         •   Recessed entries

         •   Balconies

         •   Awnings or shade elements

         •   Exposed beams and wood fascia

      2.   Commercial-Related Developments

         •   Commercial structures shall include architectural features,
such as those listed below:

         •   Integrated roof elements with parapets

         •   Covered outdoor pedestrian areas

         •   Landscaped parking island

         •   Uniform signs

         •   Covered recessed entrances

         •   Architectural elements to screen all mechanical equipment

      (h)   Walls and Fences

      1.   The maximum height at all locations, except the required
front yard, is eight (8) feet as measured from the top of the wall to
finished grade.

      2.   Retaining and Crib walls shall comply with the requirements
contained in Section 17.10.120 (b) of this Municipal Code.

      3.   The height of fences within the required front yard shall be
as described in Section 17.10.120 (c).

      4.   All walls must be constructed of masonry, glass block, or a
combination thereof. All fences must be built with wood
(weatherproofed), decorative/wrought iron, chain link, or other similar
materials. The use of unsightly salvage materials is not permitted for
fencing purposes.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14.]

17.50.050   Accessory Uses and Structures

   Accessory structures are subject to the same height and setback
requirements described for primary buildings and structures in Table
30-1 ADD, LM and MI Zone Districts - Development Standards, except as
modified by Section 17.10.070 Maximum Projections into Yard, and Section
17.22.030 (b).

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14.]

17.50.060   Attached Single Family and Multi-Family Housing -Additional
Standards

   (a)   Open Space Requirements

      1.   All attached single-family and multi-family developments with
ten (10) or more dwelling units shall provide a minimum of five hundred
(500) square feet of a combination of private and common usable open
space per unit. Table 50-2 indicates the minimum open space dimensions
for usable common and private open space areas. The City may, at its
discretion, include private patios, decks, or balconies in the
calculation of open space provided within a development. Required front
and street side setback areas, driveways, parking areas, and walkways
shall not be used to satisfy any part of the common open space
requirement.

TABLE 50-2
USABLE OPEN SPACE DIMENSIONS FOR MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS

 

  ------------------------------------ ----------------------- ---------------- ---------------
  Zone and Type of Usable Open Space   Minimum Area Per Unit   Minimum Length   Minimum Width
  Combined and common private (a)      500 sf.                 5 ft.            5 ft.
  ------------------------------------ ----------------------- ---------------- ---------------

 

   (a)   Where private open space is provided, it shall have a minimum
of forty (40) square feet in area and a minimum dimension of five (5)
feet.

      2.   Required Amenities

         All attached single-family and multi-family housing
developments shall provide recreational amenities within the common open
space. Common open space amenities shall include, but not be limited to
recreational amenities such as swimming pool, picnic/barbeque area,
volleyball court, passive sitting area, tot lot, children’s playground
(combined age group 2-5 and age group 5-12) and indoor
recreation/meeting room/fitness area. Amenities shall be provided in
accordance with the following:

   (b)   Laundry Facilities

      Laundry facilities shall be installed in each unit or a laundry
room shall be installed within each building or within an enclosed
accessory building located at a maximum walking distance of two hundred
fifty (250) feet from the units they serve, with an appropriate ratio of
machines per dwelling unit.

   (c)   Onsite Storage

      Each dwelling unit shall be provided a minimum of seventy-five
(75) cubic feet of lockable storage space outside the unit such as at
the entrance of the unit, on the balcony, within a carport or garage or
other similar location outside the unit.

   (d)   Trash Enclosures

      Trash enclosures shall be provided for any attached single-family
and multi-family housing development for the temporary storage and
collection of trash, rubbish, and/or garbage in accordance with all of
the following requirements:

      1.   Trash enclosures shall be provided at a rate of 1 bin/24
units or a double bin per forty-eight (48) units.

      2.   All trash enclosures shall be located for convenient access
by occupants of the site and vehicular access for pick-up and disposal.
Trash enclosures shall be located to provide a maximum walking distance
of two hundred fifty (250) feet from the units they serve.

      3.   Trash enclosures shall be enclosed by a decorative masonry
wall, architecturally compatible with the main building(s). Such
enclosure shall include a solid gate for bin access and a separate view
obstructing pedestrian access. A trellis of non-flammable materials or
heavy timbers, consistent with Fire Department requirements, shall be
provided over trash enclosures which are not inside a structure.

      4.   All trash enclosures visible from streets or public parking
areas shall be constructed and finished to be compatible with the
architectural details and decor of the primary structure(s).

      5.   All trash enclosure shall be regularly cleaned and
maintained.

      6.   All trash containers and trash bins shall incorporate a
tight-fitting lid.

      7.   Trash enclosures are prohibited in the front setback, or any
setback areas abutting residential zones, or properties used for
residential purposes.

   (e)   Professional Management Required

      Management by a professional management company providing
full-time services for the management of rental housing facilities is
required for all rental housing in a multi-family complex of ten (10)
units or more.

   (f)   Landscaping

      Landscaping is required as specified in Chapters 17.60 and 17.15
of this Zoning Code. In addition to these requirements, multi-family
developments whose driveways (entry driveways and internal circulation
driveways) are located within any street-side setback and are not
perpendicular to the street are required to install a thirty-six (36)
inch high hedge or decorative wall adjacent to driveways, for screening
purposes.

   (g)   Parking Spaces

      1.   Parking spaces shall be provided and located as specified in
Chapters 17.60 and 17.15 of this Zoning Code. Required parking spaces
can be reduced by thirty percent (30%) when seventy-five percent (75%)
or more of the units within a housing development are affordable to low
or very-low income levels, or as determined appropriate by the Planning
Director.

      2.   Where driveways and parking spaces are located adjacent to a
single-family detached residential zone (DL-9, DL-2.5/5, R1-.5, R1),
driveways and parking spaces shall have a landscaped setback from the
property line a minimum of ten (10) feet and a block wall or solid
fence, a minimum of six (6) feet in height, shall be provided adjacent
to the property line.

   (h)   Required Building Separation for Primary Buildings within
Attached Single-Family and Multi-Family Developments

      The building separation requirements outlined in Table 50-4 shall
apply to any lot containing two or more dwelling units located in
separate, detached structures. The required separations shall be between
opposite exterior walls of any buildings containing dwelling units. In
the event that more stringent requirements are imposed by the Uniform
Building Code or the Fire Department, the more stringent regulations
shall apply.

TABLE 50-4
MINIMUM BUILDING SEPARATION FOR PRIMARY BUILDINGS WITHIN ATTACHED SINGLE
FAMILY AND MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS

 

  --------------------- -----------------------------
  Height of Building1   Minimum Required Separation
  Less than 25 ft.      10 ft.
  --------------------- -----------------------------

 

   1   Where buildings of different heights are adjacent, the standard
for the taller building shall apply.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14.]

17.50.070   Outdoor Storage

   (a)   All storage, except for operable vehicles and aircraft, shall
be screened from all public right-of-ways and adjacent residential
properties. Screening shall be the use of a decorative masonry block
wall, solid fencing, or other drought tolerant landscaping barrier.

   (b)   Recreational Vehicle Storage

      The storage of boats, travel trailers, and other recreational
vehicles, including personal aircraft for personal (non-commercial) use,
on residential lots within the Mixed Use District shall be not be
permitted.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14.]

17.50.080   Parking Standards

   (a)   Parking standards for non-residential uses within the Mixed Use
District shall comply with Chapter 17.65 of this Zoning Code.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14.]

CHAPTER 17.57
BIOTIC RESOURCES

   17.57.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.57.020   Locational Requirements

   17.57.030   Biological Resource Report Required

   17.57.040   Plant Protection and Management

17.57.010 Intent and Purpose

To implement General Plan policies regarding the protection and
conservation of beneficial rare and endangered plants and animal
resources and their habitats each project within the City of Adelanto is
required to prepare a biotic resources study.

17.57.020 Locational Requirements

The Biotic Resources Study shall be applied to areas which have been
identified by a state or federal agency as habitat for plants or animals
officially listed as threatened or endangered by the State of California
and/or the federal government, and their habitats. The Study may also be
applied to areas of ecological significance, including but not limited
to those identified in the General Plan.

17.57.030 Biological Resources Report Required

When new development is proposed or when an existing land use is
proposed to be increased by more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the
existing floor area, or by twenty-five percent (25%) of the land area
for an outdoor recreational or other use, the applicant shall have a
report prepared identifying all biotic resources located on the site and
on adjacent parcels which could be impacted by the proposed development.
The report shall outline mitigating measures designed to reduce or
eliminate impacts to the identified resource(s).

The report shall be submitted along with the application for the
proposed development. The report shall be prepared by an appropriate
expert such as a qualified biologist, botanist, herpetologist, or other
professional "life scientist." The conditions of approval of any land
use application shall incorporate the identified mitigating measures to
protect and preserve the habitats of the identified plants and/or
animals.

Reports may include, but are not limited to,

   1.   The federally and state listed desert tortoise (Xerobates
agassizi).

   2.   State listed Mojave ground squirrel (Spermophilus mohavensis).

17.57.040 Plant Protection and Management

Development projects will comply with the requirements of the County of
San Bernardino for the relocation of Joshua trees. The Building
Department will review relocation plans and monitor the relocation of
any Joshua trees.

CHAPTER 17.60
LANDSCAPING/WATER CONSERVATION

   17.60.010   General Provisions

   17.60.020   Landscape Design Plan

   17.60.030   Landscape Design Standards

   17.60.040   Landscape Material and Area Requirements

   17.60.050   Model Home Complexes

   17.60.060   Landscape Maintenance

   17.60.070   Water Conservation

   17.60.080   Approved Plant List

17.60.010 General Provisions

   Landscaping shall be provided, irrigated and maintained as required
by the Planning Director, pursuant to this Code and the policies of the
City General Plan, each of which may be amended from time to time.

   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to provide minimum
water conservation and landscape development standards which will
promote the general welfare of Adelanto residents through the provision
of an outdoor environment which will:

      (1)   Create aesthetically pleasing views and vistas along public
streets.

      (2)   Complement and enhance the functional and aesthetic design
of new building and site development projects so as to protect and
enhance property values.

      (3)   Provide visual screening of parking, service and storage
areas.

      (4)   Mitigate the adverse impacts of higher intensity land uses
upon lower intensity uses through the provision of needed landscape
buffers.

      (5)   Promote water conservation by restricting the use of turf
and ornamental water features and requiring the utilization of low water
use plant materials.

      (6)   Promote climate modifications for enhancement of pedestrian
environment at street frontages, parking lots and building facades.

      (7)   Provide maximum shade on ground surfaces to reduce the
“urban heat island effect” produced by large expanses of unprotected
paved areas.

   (b)   Applicability.

      All persons owning, developing or maintaining property subject to
the provisions of this Chapter shall comply with all applicable
provisions contained herein as identified below.

      The landscape standards and requirements established by Chapter
17.15 and Chapter 17.60, Sections 17.60.020 through 17.60.080 shall
apply to all new developments whether residential, commercial or
industrial. The landscape standards and requirements establish by
Sections 17.60.020 through 17.60.080 shall not apply to existing
development, unless the development is being expanded by 25% or more of
the existing floor area. The landscape maintenance provisions of Section
17.60.060 shall apply to all new and existing development.

      This Chapter does not apply to registered historical sites or
cemeteries. Registered historical sites and cemeteries shall provide
scheduled irrigation based on CIMIS (California Irrigation Management
Information System) or conduct water audits every three (3) years with
strict adherence to the recommendations in the water audit. CIMIS and
water audits shall be submitted to the water serving entity for
compliance.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]

17.60.020 Landscape Design Plan

   (a)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, three (3) copies of
a landscape design plan consisting of the landscape and irrigation plans
shall be submitted to the Planning Division. Such plans shall be drawn
at a minimum scale of one (1) inch equals thirty (30) feet (maximum
sheet size 30" X 42") and contain the following information:

      (1)   Building footprints and roof overhangs, walkways, parking
surfaces and vehicular overhang lines, property lines, right-of-way
lines, and easement lines.

      (2)   Calculations of the square footage and percent of total of
all site elements including building footprints, parking, and landscaped
area. Landscaped area shall also be further subdivided into
subcategories of turf, shrubs/groundcover, and inorganic materials.

      (3)   The location of existing and proposed plant materials.

      (4)   Plant graphic symbol legend and a plant schedule including
botanical and common names, planting size, number of plants, and
on-center spacing of massed shrubs and ground cover plants on each
landscape plan sheet.

      (5)   Planting details, specifications and required guarantee (see
Section 17.60.060 (b)).

      (6)   Inorganic materials schedule including type of materials
(i.e. decomposed granite, river rock, screened rock, etc.) quantities
and depth.

      (7)   Irrigation plan showing location of controller, existing or
proposed meters, backflow preventer, water lines, heads, and materials
schedule on each landscape plan sheet. Irrigation systems shall be
designed to minimize maintenance and water consumption, and the
irrigation system shall be properly designed and installed to ensure
that overspray onto fences, walls and structures is eliminated to the
maximum extent feasible.

      (8)   Irrigation details and pressure loss calculations.

      (9)   A diagrammatic plan showing the amount of shading that the
landscaping is expected to provide at its maturity with the sun at its
apex.

   (b)   The landscaping and irrigation plans shall be approved by the
Director if found to be in compliance with the standards and
requirements of this Chapter and Chapter 17.15 , which approval shall be
obtained prior to the installation of the landscaping and irrigation
materials. The installation of the landscaping and irrigation materials
required by this Chapter shall be completed and shall be approved by the
Director prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for the
structure, or prior to the use of the facility if no structure is
involved.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]

17.60.030 Landscape Design Standards

   (a)   Landscaping shall be designed, installed and continuously
maintained in accordance with Chapter 17.15 of this Zoning Code and the
following standards:

      (1)   Principles of Xeriscape Landscaping. Landscape developments
shall be designed, installed and continuously maintained in accordance
with the following seven basic principles of Xeriscape landscaping:

         A.   Planning and Design. Use a water conservation design.
Implement a “mini-oasis” concept. Water using plants and turf should be
concentrated in small areas near buildings where they may be enjoyed at
the pedestrian level.

         B.   Limited Turf Areas. Limit the use of turf to small areas
where it will be actively used and efficiently watered. See Section
17.60.070 (e) for further information.

         C.   Efficient Irrigation. Utilize the most efficient
irrigation system for the area being served. Drip irrigate individual
plants rather than flooding larger areas. Group plantings with common
water requirements together to be watered on the same irrigation control
zone.

         D.   Soil Improvements. Add soil amendments within planned
areas to increase the water holding capacity of the soil and improve the
health and vigor of plants.

         E.   Mulching. Cover final soil surfaces around plants with
organic or inorganic mulches to insulate against soil temperature
extremes and conserve moisture.

         F.   Use Lower Water Demand Plants. Utilize only those plants
listed in the officially approved low water use plant list (see Section
17.60.080 ) or alternative plants approved by the Director.

         G.   Appropriate Maintenance. Maintain irrigation systems so
they operate at peak efficiency. Lessen water demand by keeping weed
growth down and by thinning unwanted wood from trees rather than
cropping them.

      (2)   Unity and Continuity 1 .

         Landscape unity and continuity may be significantly enhanced
through the selection of a dominant tree and shrub species. Such
dominance shall be established by making the selected species clearly in
the majority (60% or more).

      (3)   Tree and Shrub Placement in Proximity to Fire Hydrants.

Figure 17.60.030-A - Fire Hydrant Clear Zone

[]

      (4)   Ground Surface Treatment.

         A.   Pre-Treatment of Ground Surfaces Required. A pre-emergent
herbicide shall be applied to the ground prior to and after the
placement of natural surface materials (decomposed granite, gravel,
crushed rock, river run rock, etc.) in any landscaped area to prevent
weed growth.

         B.   Inorganic Ground Cover. Inorganic ground covers
(decomposed granite, crushed stone, etc.) shall be of a natural color
harmonious with other site and architectural materials and shall be
installed to a minimum depth of two (2) inches over a weed barrier such
as landscape cloth or plastic that prevents weed growth.

         C.   Plant Cover/Dust Control. All portions of a development
site (including future building pads) not occupied by buildings,
structures, paved improvements, and required landscape areas shall be
temporarily landscaped with plant materials in accordance with this
Chapter or treated with an appropriate inorganic ground cover and
maintained in a weed and dust free condition.

      (5)   Plant Massing.

         The massing of trees and shrubs into groups containing three
(3) or more plants is required unless standards elsewhere within this
Chapter require only a single element, e.g., single trees within parking
lot planter islands. Planting of single shrub specimens, unless used to
repeat an element already established within a massed planting within
the same visual area, is prohibited.

      (6)   Plant Groupings.

         The grouping of plant species commonly found together in
natural associations or of common environmental requirements (soil type,
water, sun exposure, temperature limitations, etc.) is required.

      (7)   Plant Spacing.

         In order to foster a more natural look, an uneven spacing of
plants is required unless such plants are being used to create a massed
shrub or groundcover bed. The spacing of shrubs shall be sufficient to
allow plants to reach their natural mature size and form.

      (8)   Consistency with Existing Streetscape Standards.

         Street frontage landscaping shall be consistent with any
previously adopted specific streetscape standards.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]

 

Notes

  ------------------------------ ------------------------------
  1                                 Plant palettes partially
                                 implemented through the
                                 construction of one or more
                                 phases of a previously
                                 approved master planned
                                 project, except for turf areas
                                 in excess of the limitations
                                 established by these landscape
                                 standards, shall be continued
                                 throughout the development of
                                 that project.

  ------------------------------ ------------------------------

17.60.040 Landscape Material and Area Requirements

   (a)   New developments shall be landscaped in accordance with the
following minimum standards:

      (1)   Plant Material.

         A.   Landscaping shall consist of native or drought-tolerant
plants capable of surviving the desert environment and climate with a
minimum of maintenance and supplemental watering. A list of plants
determined capable of meeting this criterion is contained in Section
17.60.080 . Other plants may be considered on their merits in meeting
this criterion. Determinations of plant species suitability will be made
by the Director upon submission of project plans.

         B.   Landscaping materials may also consist of wood timbers,
decorative rocks, boulders, sand, bark, gravel, or a combination
thereof; provided, however, that the majority of landscape materials and
area shall consist of plants, as set forth above.

      (2)   Irrigation.

         Utilize the most efficient irrigation system for the area being
served. Irrigation of required landscaped areas should be by drip
irrigation and matched precipitation rate, low-gallonage sprinkler
heads, bubblers, and timing devices. Timing devices shall include soil
moisture sensors and rain sensing override devices.

         Irrigation systems shall be designed to minimize maintenance
and water consumption, and the irrigation system shall be properly
designed and installed to ensure that overspray onto fences, walls and
structures is eliminated to the maximum extent feasible.

      (3)   Landscape Area Requirements.

         All portions of a development site not utilized for building
development, service areas, paved or improved storage areas, parking,
driveways, etc., shall be landscaped. Developers are required to install
front and street side yard landscaping for all new development. Minimum
areas of landscaping are as follows:

         A.   Front Building Setback/Street Right-of-Way Areas. All
front building setback and street right-of-way areas located between
on-site improvements and the back of existing or future public sidewalks
or street curbs, except needed access driveways, shall be fully
landscaped, unless otherwise provided for in this Development Code.

         B.   Parking Lot Area. The following landscaping standards
apply to parking lots (Figure 17.60.040-A, B, and C).

            1.   In order to reduce the “heat island effect” of large
expanses of unprotected paved areas, a minimum of thirty (30) percent of
the interior parking surface of all parking lots shall be shaded at the
maturity of the landscaping.

            2.   Provide a minimum of one (1) tree (minimum fifteen (15)
gallon size when planted) for each seven (7) parking spaces located so
as to visually disrupt long rows of parking spaces, trees may be
clustered where appropriate.

            3.   A thirty-six to forty-two (36-42) inch high decorative
masonry wall, hedge or landscaped berm, as measured from the finished
grade of the parking area, shall also be used adjacent to public
rights-of-way to screen the parking area. The height of the screening
wall or berm may be reduced when the parking lot is below grade.
Horizontal and vertical variations in the design of screening walls are
required where the length of such walls exceeds forty (40) feet. Said
variations are subject to Planning Staff approval.

Figure 17.60.040-A - Recommended Design Features and Materials

[]

 

            4.   A minimum of five (5) percent of the interior parking
surface area of all parking lots shall be landscaped. Such percentage
may be achieved by combining paragraph (1) below with paragraph (2)
and/or (3).

               a.   Planter islands a minimum of five (5) feet in width
shall be located at the ends of all rows of parking stalls between the
last stall and any drive aisle. Where drive aisles are curved,
alternative dimensions with similar area may be approved (Figure
17.60.040-B ); and

               b.   Planter islands, shall be uniformly distributed
throughout the interior parking area, and protected by raised curbs
(Figure 17.60.040-B ); or

               c.   Planter strips, located between double rows of
parking stalls, shall be a minimum of four (4) feet in width. Each
parking stall may overhang two (2) feet into this area (Figure
17.60.040-B ).

            5.   Trees within parking lots shall be kept trimmed to a
minimum clear canopy height of six (6) feet for visual safety.

Figure 17.60.040-B - Planter Islands/Strips

[]

 

            6.   A landscaped strip with a minimum width of ten (10)
feet shall be provided where parking lots are adjacent to a public
right-of-way or residential uses or districts, unless otherwise provided
for in this Code.

      (4)   Landscape Buffers/Perimeter Landscape Strips.

         A.   Landscape Buffers. When providing a buffer between
commercial/industrial and residential uses or districts the following
features are required:

Figure 17.60.040-C - Landscape Areas

[]

 

            1.   Landscaping shall include one (1) tree for each 200
square feet of required landscape area. Said tree shall be a minimum
fifteen (15) gallon size when planted, twenty (20) percent of such
required trees shall be twenty-four (24) inch box size; and

            2.   A six (6) foot decorative masonry wall to City
standards; and

            3.   Evergreen trees a minimum of six (6) feet in height,
and 2 inches in diameter, planted at a maximum spacing of twenty (20)
feet on center and shrubs planted at a rate of five (5) per one hundred
linear feet.

         B.   Front Building Setback Area. Landscaping in the front
building setback area shall be provided at a minimum rate of one (1)
tree and six (6) shrubs per thirty (30) linear feet of frontage plus
sufficient groundcover plantings to provide combined shrub and ground
coverage of fifty (50) percent of the total landscaped area. Trees and
shrubs may be grouped, but gaps between groupings of plants shall not
exceed forty (40) feet.

         C.   Other Perimeter Areas. Landscaping in other perimeter
areas shall be provided at a minimum rate of one (1) tree and six (6)
shrubs per forty (40) linear feet plus sufficient groundcover plantings
to provide combined shrub and ground coverage of forty (40) percent of
the total landscaped area, except where screening is required. Trees
shall be a minimum fifteen (15) gallon size when planted, twenty (20)
percent of which shall be twenty-four (24) inch box size. Trees and
shrubs may be grouped, but gaps between groupings of plants shall not
exceed fifty (50) feet.

      (5)   Landscape Improvement Requirements. The following minimum
landscape improvements are required within the following landscape
areas:

         A.   Single and Multi-Family Residential Developments.

            1.   Common open space/retention areas. A minimum of one (1)
tree and six (6) shrubs per 500 square feet of open space plus such
additional vegetative ground cover as is necessary to cover a minimum of
fifty (50) percent of the total landscaped area with shrubs and ground
cover. The inclusion of turf is subject to the limitations established
in Section 17.60.070(e) and in Table 17.60.040-A.

            2.   Major Street/Boulevard, collector street, and activity
street rights-of-way. Major Street/Boulevard, collector street, and
activity street rights-of-way adjacent to and within single and
multi-family residential developments shall be landscaped at a rate of
one (1) tree and three (3) shrubs per 30 linear feet plus such
vegetative ground cover necessary to cover a minimum of forty (40)
percent of the total landscaped area with shrubs and ground cover. Turf
is prohibited within public rights-of-way.

            3.   Front and Street Side Yards. The use of turf in these
areas is discouraged. See Section 17.60.070(e) for specific
restrictions.

         B.   Commercial/Office/Institutional Developments. One (1) tree
and six (6) shrubs per 500 square feet of interior open space plus such
additional ground cover which, upon maturity, will cover a minimum of
fifty (50) percent of all interior open space surfaces. The inclusion of
turf is subject to the limitations established in Section 17.60.070(d)
and in Table 17.60.040-A.

         C.   Industrial Developments. One (1) tree and six (6) shrubs
per 750 square feet of interior open space plus such additional
vegetative ground cover which, upon maturity, will cover a minimum of
forty (40) percent of all interior open space surfaces. The inclusion of
turf is subject to the limitations established in Section 17.60.070(d)
and in Table 17.60.040-A.

         D.   Grading in the Front Building Setback. Front setback areas
shall be graded in a manner which creates natural and pleasing ground
forms in accordance with the following guidelines:

            1.   A maximum of fifty (50) percent of the front building
setback area may be used for storm water retention.

            2.   Soil excavated to create needed retention basins shall,
within the slope limitations established below, be used to create
complementary earth mounds elsewhere within the same front building
setback area.

            3.   Earth mounds with a maximum slope ratio of four to one
(4:1), horizontal to vertical, shall be located and designed to minimize
street views into retention basins.

            4.   Grading and other site preparation shall preclude the
run-off of rain and/or irrigation water from landscaped surfaces onto
paved surfaces.

         E.   Finished Grade Surfaces. All landscaped areas shall be
graded so that finish grade surfaces of all nonliving materials (i.e.,
decomposed granite, crushed rock, mulch, and the like) are at least one
and one-half (1 1/2) inches below concrete or other paved surfaces.

         F.   Protection of Landscaped Areas. Landscaped areas adjacent
to vehicular drives or parking areas shall be protected by a six (6)
inch vertical curb. Areas surfaced with different materials (i.e. lawn
and decomposed granite) shall be separated by masonry, wood, or mowing
strips.

         G.   Irrigation Systems. The use of drip irrigation systems or
systems of equivalent efficiency for all landscaping at commercial and
industrial facilities and all common areas of residential developments
is required. The use of similar systems on individual residential lots
is encouraged.

            Irrigation systems shall be designed to minimize maintenance
and water consumption, and the irrigation system shall be properly
designed and installed to ensure that overspray onto fences, walls and
structures is eliminated to the maximum extent feasible.

         H.   Limitations on the Use of Turf.

            Unless watered with “reclaimed” water, the use of turf in
specific land uses shall be limited to the percentages listed in Table
17.60.040-A below.

Table 17.60.040-A - Permitted Turf Area

 

  -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------
  Land Use                                     Turf permitted as a percent of
                                               
                                               Total Landscaped Area

  Single family residential                    20%

  Multi-family residential                     20%

  Common open space/retention basins           20%

  Parks, schools, golf course and cemeteries   No limitations

  Commercial/office/institutional              20%

  Industrial                                   10%
  -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------

 

      (6)   Decorative Water Features.

         Within commercial, industrial and multi-family developments the
use of decorative water features including, but not limited to, pools,
ponds, fountains, streams, and waterfalls, unless serviced with
“reclaimed water”, shall be limited to small scale pedestrian oriented
locations and features. Water feature designs that reduce evaporation,
e.g. cascading water rather than vertical sprays, are required.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]

17.60.050 Model Home Complexes

   (a)   Model home complexes, unless they are utilizing “reclaimed
water”, shall be landscaped in accordance with the xeriscape landscape
principles listed in Section 17.60.030 (a) and the following minimum
requirements:

      (1)   Plant Materials.

         Landscaping shall consist of native or drought-tolerant plants
capable of surviving the desert environment and climate with a minimum
of maintenance and supplemental watering. A list of plants determined
capable of meeting this criterion is contained in Section 17.60.080.
Other plants may be considered on their merits in meeting this
criterion. Determinations of plant species suitability will be made by
the Director upon submission of project plans.

      (2)   Turf and Water Surfaces/Features.

         Combined turf and water surfaces of all water features shall
not occupy more than fifty (50) percent of the landscapable area within
each lot in the model home complex. Swimming pools, hot tubs and spas
are exempt from this limitation.

      (3)   Literature Package.

         A literature package describing water conserving landscaping
designs shall be on display within all model sales offices. If copies of
the literature package are not made available by the homebuilder, such
display shall include information regarding where the literature is
available. The following are recommended to be included in the
literature package:

         A.   A Guide to High Desert Landscaping is available at your
local water district offices and the Planning Division offices.

         B.   The Unthirsty One Hundred

            Reprint from Sunset Magazine - October 1988

            Lane Publishing Company

            Menlo Park, California 94025

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]

17.60.060 Landscape Maintenance

   (a)   Landscape Maintenance. Landscaping shall be continuously
maintained (watering, fertilizing, weeding, mowing, trash pick-up, and
pruning) by the landowner or the lessor of new and existing development
in accordance with the following:

      (1)   Sites shall be kept clean and attractive at all times. Weeds
and trash (windblown or otherwise) shall not be allowed to accumulate on
the site.

      (2)   Living plant material shall receive sufficient water and
fertilization to maintain health and vigor and shall, to the maximum
extent possible, be allowed to attain its natural mature size and shape.

      (3)   Pruning and mowing shall be used to maintain plant health
and vigor while enhancing its form and structure. Cropping trees, unless
necessary for safety reasons, is prohibited.

         Pruning and mowing will conform to the commonly used standards
for each species; however, in no case will the landscape areas be
allowed to become overgrown. Examples of overgrown landscape material
include:

         A.   Lawn grass species: Plants which have established seed
heads, lawns that have become thatched and matted, have become infested
with herbaceous weeds, or exceed eight (8) inches in height.

         B.   Shrubs and decorative grasses: Plants that have grown so
large as to block natural light from entering windows, extend over
property lines, extend over roof peaks or eaves, or are causing the
strangulation of other plants.

         C.   Trees: Plants which display sucker growth, have grown to a
height or canopy width which impairs the normal illumination of street
lights, extend over property lines, interfere with overhead lines or
impact public property.

      (4)   All dead or obviously unhealthy plant material shall be
replaced in an expeditious manner with material equal to that which was
originally specified on the approved landscape plan.

      (5)   Bare spots in lawns or planters shall be promptly
re-vegetated.

      (6)   Customary maintenance shall include provision of adequate
irrigation, based on the micro-climate, and regular application of
fertilizer, based on the needs of the plant.

      (7)   All property owners shall be responsible for maintenance of
parkway areas within the public right-of-way adjacent to their
properties, except those areas outside of a six-foot high block wall or
solid fence.

   (b)   Landscape Guarantee.

      (1)   The owner or developer shall, prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy, evidence that all plant materials are
guaranteed for a minimum period of sixty (60) days from the date of
final approval of the installation of the landscaping. Terms of the
guarantee shall also specify that any plant materials which are not
approved prior to October 1st of the calendar year in which they are
installed shall be further guaranteed until May 20th of the following
calendar year.

      (2)   Trees, shrubs, vines, ground cover, and turf which have to
be replaced under terms of the guarantee shall be guaranteed for an
additional sixty (60) days from the date of replacement.

      (3)   All plant materials requiring replacement under the
conditions of the contractors guarantee shall be replaced within ten
(10) working days from the date of written notification.

   (c)   Existing Landscaping.

      (1)   Maintenance. Required landscape areas, existing at the time
of adoption of this Ordinance, shall be maintained in accordance with
the provisions of Section 17.60.060(a) above.

      (2)   Prevention of Wasted Water. Existing developments shall,
through improvements to its irrigation system and landscaped areas,
prevent water waste resulting from inefficient landscape irrigation,
run-off, low head drainage, overspray, or other similar conditions where
water flows onto adjacent property, nonirrigated areas, walks, roadways,
or structures.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]

17.60.070 Water Conservation

   (a)   Definitions.

      (1)   Acre-foot of water - that quantity of water required to
cover (1) acre of land one (1) foot deep, or three hundred twenty-five
thousand, eight hundred fifty-one (325,851) gallons.

      (2)   Active recreational area - an area designated and primarily
used for organized sports, including, without limitation, softball,
baseball, football, soccer or a similar related sport, including all
amenities related to the activity.

      (3)   Body of water - any artificially constructed lake, pond, or
lagoon, regardless of size.

      (4)   City - the City of Adelanto.

      (5)   Controller - a mechanical timer capable of operating valve
stations to set days, length of time, and frequency of water
application.

      (6)   Escaped water - the pumping, flow release, escape, or
leakage of any water from any pipe, valve, faucet, connection, diversion
berm, well, or any facility for the purposes of water supply, transport,
storage, disposal, or delivery onto adjacent property or public
right-of-way.

      (7)   Excess runoff - water accumulation on streets, gutters,
neighboring properties, or other areas in an amount sufficient to cause
flow.

      (8)   Manager - the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.

      (9)   Lot - a legally created parcel of land occupied or intended
for occupancy by one (1) main building together with its accessory
buildings, and uses customarily incidental to it, including the open
space required by the City’s zoning ordinance, and having it’s principal
frontage upon a street as defined in the City’s zoning ordinance.

      (10)   Model home - a facility used exclusively for the promotion
and sale of homes similar to the model.

      (11)   Person - an individual, corporation, partnership,
incorporated association, or any other similar entity.

      (12)   Public water system - any publicly or privately owned
network of pipes, conduits, wells, reservoirs, holding tanks, and other
components, including any combination thereof, which supplies water to
water users, who are charged a fee of any kind or nature for such
purpose, or which is designed to supply water or is capable of supplying
water to water users for a fee, and includes any such system whether it
is operated under the regulatory authority of the City of Adelanto, but
does not include any irrigation company or district whose primary
purpose is to supply water for farming.

      (13)   Residential development - the development of any type of
dwelling unit or units suitable or designed for human habitation,
including, but not limited to, single family homes, condominiums, or
manufactured homes, but not including hotels, motels, licensed
convalescent homes, commercially operated retirement homes, time share
units, or the like. “Residential development” shall not include
remodeling or reconstruction where no new dwelling unit is created.

      (14)   Right of way - land which by deed, conveyance, agreement,
easement, dedication, usage, or process of law is reserved for or
dedicated to the general public for street, highway, alley, public
utility, or pedestrian walkway purposes.

      (15)   Turf - a surface layer of earth containing grass with its
roots.

      (16)   Turf-related facility - a school, public recreational
facility, cemetery, golf course, industrial park, or common area of a
housing development that applies water from any source, including
effluent.

      (17)   Water-intensive landscape - an area of land that is watered
with a permanent water application system and planted primarily with
plants not listed in Section H “Approved Plant List”. Included is the
total surface area of all water features (i.e. swimming pools of any
size, fountains, ponds, water courses, waterfalls, and other artificial
water structures) filled or refilled with water from any source.

      (18)   Water purveyor - the owner or operator of a public water
system.

      (19)   Water user - those persons, customers, and properties
served by a water purveyor within the incorporated boundaries of the
City.

      (20)   Water waste - the indiscriminate use or excessive
dissipation of water, which is unproductive or does not reasonably
sustain life or economic benefits.

   (b)   Application of Section.

      The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all water users. Any
new single family residential development that is in Final Map check or
has submitted Street Improvement Plans at the time this Ordinance is
adopted is exempt from these regulations.

      (1)   Resulting from fire fighting, hydrant flushing, or fire
training activities; or

      (2)   Necessary to prevent or abate threats to the public health
or safety; or

      (3)   From routine maintenance of any public water system or from
temporary water system failures or malfunctions; or

      (4)   From water users engaged in landscape irrigation with
treated wastewater, effluent, grey water, or other nonpotable water.

      (5)   Drought tolerant plants as outlined in Section 17.60.080 .

   (c)   Prohibited Water Uses and Water Waste.

      The restrictions or prohibitions in this chapter shall not apply
to water use, runoff, or flow.

      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any water user of a public water
system to knowingly allow water waste at any location or premises within
the City limits after having been served with a notice of violation,
pursuant to Section 17.60.070 (c) for wasting water from the same
location or premises.

      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupier, or manager of
real property within the City to knowingly allow water waste at any such
real property after having been served with a notice of violation,
pursuant to Section 17.60.070 (c) for wasting water from the same
location or premises.

      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any water user within the City to
knowingly make, cause, use, or permit the use of water for residential,
commercial, industrial, agricultural, or any other purpose in a manner
contrary to any provision of this chapter.

      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any water user to cause or permit
any water furnished to any property within the City to run or to escape
from any hose, pipe, valve, faucet, sprinkler, or irrigation device onto
any sidewalk, street, or gutter or to otherwise escape from the
property, if such running or escaping can reasonably be prevented.

      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any water user to wash any vehicle,
equipment, or other object, or any driveway, parking lot, sidewalk,
street, or other paved surface, in any manner permitting the continuous
flow of water for more than five minutes.

      (6)   Commercial and noncommercial watering of turf, ground cover,
open ground, shrubbery, crops, gardens, and trees, including
agricultural irrigation, in a manner or to an extent which allows
substantial amounts or excess runoff shall not be permitted. A minimum
amount of runoff, which is a natural consequence of conservative
watering, either by hand or by mechanical or automated sprinkling
facilities, is permitted, so long as such runoff does not amount to
excess runoff as defined in this Chapter.

      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any water user to permit the excess
use, loss, or escape or water through breaks, leaks, or other
malfunctions in the water user’s plumbing or distribution system for any
period of time after such escape of water should have reasonably been
discovered and corrected.

      (8)   It shall be unlawful for any water user to willfully or
negligently permit or cause the escape or flow of irrigation water in
such quantity as to cause flooding, impede vehicular or pedestrian
traffic, create a hazardous condition to such traffic, or cause damage
to public or private rights of way through failure or neglect to
properly operate or maintain any irrigation structure, delivery ditch,
or waste ditch.

      (9)   It shall be unlawful for any water user to water or permit
the watering of water intensive landscape or turf at time other than as
authorized by the water purveyor.

      (10)   It shall be unlawful for any water user to willfully or
negligently fail to accept irrigation water after it has been ordered.

   (d)   Limitation on water intensive landscape and turf areas within
new nonresidential facilities.

      The following types of facilities shall limit the water intensive
landscape and turf within the landscaped area to the following
percentages of the total lot area, and all remaining landscaped area
shall consist of plants listed in Section 17.60.080:

      (1)   Churches. Twenty percent (20%) of total lot area.

      (2)   Resorts, including hotels and motels. See Table 17.60.040-A
(Permitted Turf Area).

      (3)   Commercial and industrial uses. See Table 17.60.040-A
(Permitted Turf Area).

      (4)   Active recreational areas shall not be considered in
calculating the percentage of the total lot area and shall not be
considered in determining compliance with this Section.

      (5)   No water intensive landscape or turf shall be permitted in
any right of way.

      (6)   No water features (ponds, fountains, etc.) shall be allowed
without proof that the feature is utilizing water conservation measures
such as recirculated water.

   (e)   Limitations on model home and new residential development
landscaping.

      (1)   Developers are required to provide front and street side
yard landscaping to all new developments prior to the issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy. All new model homes and new residential
development shall limit water intensive landscape and turf area to the
following percentage of the total lot area, and all remaining landscaped
area shall consist of plants listed in Section 17.60.080:

         A.   Front yard and street side yards. Twenty percent (20%) of
the total front/street side yard area. (The total yard area of
single-family residences includes any hardscape areas such as driveways
and walkways).

            1.   Rear yard. No limitations.

            2.   Common areas in residential developments. Ten percent
(10%) of the first acre and five percent (5%) of each additional acre up
to five (5) acres. Residential developments larger than five (5) acres
shall not plant any additional water intensive landscape and turf in
common areas.

            3.   Each model home complex shall include at least one plan
with no turf. This no-turf option shall be offered as an option to the
home buyer.

            4.   Water intensive landscape or turf is not limited in
rear yards, but is strongly encouraged.

            5.   No water intensive landscape or turf shall be permitted
in any right of way.

            6.   No water features (ponds, fountains, etc.) shall be
allowed without proof that the feature is utilizing water conservation
measures such as re-circulated water.

      Any modification to the landscaping that results in a proven
reduction of water use may be used to obtain greater flexibility in the
minimum turf area allowed. Methods used to reduce water use may include:
satellite sprinkler systems, elimination of surface runoff, and/or the
use of reclaimed water.

   (f)   Public education during drought.

      The City will use intensive public education to assist water users
impacted by the drought to understand the City’s need for voluntary
compliance. In addition to education, the City may use enforcement
measures to curb water misuse.

   (g)   Drought management plan implementation.

      (1)   The City Council shall promulgate a drought management plan
containing regulations setting forth the criteria for implementation and
termination of various water use reduction stages.

      (2)   The City Council is authorized to declare a drought, and to
implement a drought management plan, in response to events including,
but not limited to, the following: reductions in supply from the Mojave
Water Agency or Adelanto Public Utilities Authority, or when an
insufficient supply appears likely due to water system limitations or
structural failure.

      (3)   Such declaration may designate the entire area of the City,
or a portion of it if the shortage is not Citywide.

      (4)   The City Council may terminate the drought declaration when
he or she determines that the events that triggered the drought no
longer exist.

   (h)   Notification and publication of drought management plan.

      If the City Council determines that the health and safety of the
City dictate implementing the drought management plan, notification
shall be published in a paper of general circulation, to educate the
public about the need for the plan, and give them notice of conservation
regulations and requirements of the applicable stage of the plan. A copy
of the drought management plan shall also be available for inspection at
the City Clerk’s office.

   (I)   Enforcement of drought management plan.

      (1)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall have authority
to take actions to enforce any mandatory elements that are part of
drought management plans.

      (2)   A written notice shall be placed on the property when a
first violation occurs, and a duplicate mailed to the person who is
responsible for the service to the property where the violation took
place. The notice shall describe the violation and order that it be
abated immediately.

      (3)   For subsequent violations, the City will issue citations and
fines according to the provisions of this Chapter.

      (4)   Funds generated by the fines under this Section shall be
used to mitigate the impact of the drought.

   (j)   Variances from drought management plan.

      Variances to drought management plan provisions may be granted at
the discretion of the City Manager or his or her designee. Applicants
for a variance must apply in writing to the City Manager or his or her
designee, and demonstrate special circumstances such as health and
safety needs or obligation of contract.

   (k)   Limited exemption to restrictions for users of reclaimed water.

      To the extent they are exempt from the drought management plan,
users of reclaimed or recycled water shall clearly post notices stating
that the water being used is not potable and not from the public
drinking water supply, and is in conformance to the drought management
plan in force at the time.

   (l)   Violations.

      (1)   For a first violation of any provision of this chapter, the
City shall issue a written notice of first violation and provide the
violator with educational materials on water conservation, including a
copy of the relevant provisions of this chapter. The City shall give the
water user a reasonable period of time to correct the violation. Failure
to correct the violation within a reasonable period of time shall
constitute a second violation.

      (2)   For a second violation of any provision of this chapter, the
City shall issue a written notice of second violation to the water user
imposing a fine in the amount not to exceed that outlined in the City of
Adelanto Municipal Code and requiring immediate correction of the
violation.

      (3)   For a third violation of any provision of this section, the
City shall issue a written notice of third violation to the water user
imposing a fine in an amount not to exceed that outlined in the City of
Adelanto Municipal Code and requiring immediate correction of the
violation.

      (4)   For a fourth or subsequent violation of this Section, the
City shall impose a fine in an amount not to that outlined in the City
of Adelanto Municipal Code. The fourth and each subsequent violation of
this chapter shall be deemed a public nuisance, which may be abated
pursuant to the procedures provided in the City of Adelanto Municipal
Code.

      (5)   Any fine imposed under this Section shall be collected in
accordance with the procedures provided in the City of Adelanto
Municipal Code. Failure to pay any portion of a water user’s account,
including any fines imposed pursuant to this Section, shall subject said
account to termination of water service in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.

      (6)   In addition to the remedies set forth above, the City may
seize equipment, line, fountains, and other devices which are operated
in violation of this Chapter, until the fine is paid. The City may
dispose of these items if the fine is not paid in six (6) months from
the date the equipment was confiscated.

   (m)   Right to hearing.

      Any water user against whom a penalty is levied under this chapter
shall have a right to a hearing before the City Manager of the City
Manager’s designee.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]

17.60.080 Approved Plant List

CITY OF ADELANTO

WATER CONSERVING PLANTS FOR THE HIGH DESERT

LEGEND:   D = Drought Tolerant

      M = Moderate Water Use

   1.   Vines

M   Antigonon leptopus   Queen’s Wreath

M   Campsis radicans   Trumpet Creeper

M   Gelsemium sempervirens   Carolina Jasmine

M   Hedera helix   English Ivy

M   Jasminum mesny   Yellow Jasmine

M   Lonicera japonica ‘Halliana’   Hall’s Honeysuckle

M/D   Macfadyena ungis-cati   Cat Claw Vine

M/D   Parthenocissus quinquefolia   Virginia Creeper

M   Rosa banksiae   Lady Bank’s Rose

M   Wisteria floribunda   Japanese Wisteria

   2.   Ground

M/D   Acacia redolens   Prostrate Acacia

D   Atriplex semibacata   Salt Bush

M/D   Buccharis pilularis ‘Twin Peaks’   Coyote Bush

D   Cerastium tomentoseum   Snow-in-summer

M/D   Convolvulus mauritanicus   Ground Morning Glory

D   Dalea graggii   Trailing Indigo Bush

M   Euonymus fortunei   Winter Creeper

M/D   Festuca ovina glauca   Blue Fescue

M/D   Gazania rigens ‘Copper King’   Gazania

M   Liriope muscari   Lily Turf

D   Oenothera berlandieri   Mexican Primrose

M   Ophiopogon japonicus   Mondo Grass

M/D   Pyrocantha coccinea ‘Low Boy’    Firethorn

M/D   Teucrium chamaedrys   Germander

M/D   Verbena rigida   Verbena

M   Vinca major   Periwinkle

M   V. minor   Dwarf Periwinkle

   3.   Trees

D   Acacia constricta   Whitethorn Acacia

D   A. greggii   Catclaw Acacia

D   Ailathus altissima   Tree of Heaven

M   Albizzia j ullibrissin   Silk Tree/Mimosa

M/D   Arbutus unedoq   Strawberry Tree

M/D   Calocedrus decurrens   Insense Cedar

M   Cauarina stricta   Beefwood/She Oak

D   Catalpa speciosa   Western Catalpa

M   Chitalpa (Chiolopsis linearis X Catalpa bignonioides)

M   Cedrus atlantica   Atlas Cedar

M   C. deodora   Deodar Cedar

D   Celtis pallida   Desert Hackberry

M/D   C. reticulata   Western Hackberry

D   Cercidium Floridum   Blue Palo Verde

D   C. microphyllum   Little Leaf Palo Verde

M/D   Cercis occidentalis   Western Redbud

M   Chamaerops humulis   Mediterranean Fan Palm

D   Chilopsis linearis   Desert Willow

D   Cupressus arizonica   Arizona Cypress

D   Cotinus coggygria   Smoke Tree

D   Cupressus glabra   Arizona Cypress

D   C. sempervirens   Italian Cypress

D   Elaeagnus angustifolia   Russian Olive

M   Eriobotrya japonica   Loquat

D   Eucalyptus cinerea   Silver Dollar Gum

D   E. gunnii   Cider Gum

D   E. microtheca   Coolibah Tree

D   E. nicholii    Willow Lead Peppermint

D   E. pulverulenta   Silver Mountain Gum

M/D   Fraxinus velutina   Arizona Ash

M/D   F.v. ‘Modesto’   Modesto Ash

M/D   F.v. ‘Rio Grande’   Fan-Tex Ash

D   Fremontodendron californicum   Flannel Bush

M   Gleditsia triacanthos   Honey Locust

M   G.t. ‘Sunburst’   Sunburst

D   Heteromeles arbutifolia   Toyon/California Holly

M/D   Koelreuteria paniculata   Golden Rain Tree

M/D   Lagerstromeia indica   Crape Myrtle

M/D   Melia azedarach   Chinaberry

M   Morus alba   Fruitless Mullberry

M/D   Nerium oleander   Oleander

M/D   Olea eruopaea   European Olive

D   Parkinsonia aculeata    Mexican Palo Verde

M   Photinia fraseri   Fraser’s Photinia

M/D   Pinus eldarica   Mondel Pine

M/D   P. halepensis   Aleppo Pine

M/D   P. edulis   Pinion Pine

M/D   P. pinea   Italian Stone Pine

M/D   P. roxburghii   Chir Pine

M/D   P. thunbergiana   Japanese Black Pine

D   Pistachio atlantica   Mt. Atlas Pistache

M   Platanus acerfolia   London Plane Tree

M   R. pacemosa   California Sycamore

D   Prosopis species   Mesquite

D   Prunis ilicifolia   Hollyleaf Cherry

M   P. caroliniana   Carolina Cherry

M.   P. cerasifera ‘Autopurpurea’    Purple Leaf Plum

M   P. persica   Flowering Peach

M/D   Punica granatum   Pomegranate

M   Pyrus kawakamii   Evergreen Pear

D   Quercus dumosa   Scrub Oak

M   Q. ilex   Holly Oak

M   Q. lobata   Valley Oak

M   Q. palustris   Pin Oak

M   Q. suber   Cork Oak

M/D   Robinia ambigua ‘Idahoensis’   Idaho Locust

D   R. Pseudoacacia   Black Locust

M   Sambucus mexicana   Mexican Elderberry

M   Sequoiadendron giganteium   Giant Sequoia

D   Sophora secundiflora   Texas Mountain Laurel

M/D   Trachycarpus fortunei   Windmille Palm

M/D   Vauquelinia californica   Rosewood

M/D   Vitex agnus-castus   Chaste Tree

M/D   Washingtonia filifera   California Fan Palm

M/D   W. robusta   Mexian Fan Palm

D   Yucca brevifolia   Joshua Tree

M/D   Zelkova Serrata   Japanese Zelkova

M/D   Ziziphus jujuba   Chinese Date

    4.   Shrubs

M   Abelia grandiflora   Glossy Abelia

M   A.g. ‘Prostata’   Dwarf abelia

D   Agave americana   Century plant

D   Aloe saponaria   African Aloe

M/D   Arctostaphylos hookerii   Monterey Manzanita

D   Atriplex canescens   Four-wing Salt Bush

D   A. lentiformis   Quail Bush

D   A.l. ‘Breweri’   Brewer’s Saltbush

D   Daccharis sarthroides   Desert Broom

M   Buxus microphylla   Japanese Boxwood

D   Caesalpinia gilliessi   Desert Bird of paradise

D   Calliandra eriophulla   Fairy Duster

D   Cassia Wislizeni   Shrubby senna

D   Cistus species   Rockrose

M/D   Convolvulus species   Bush Morning Glory

D   Cortaderia selloana   Pampas Grass

M   Cotoneaster horizontalis   Rock Cotoneaster

M   C. microphyllus    Rockspray Cotoneaster

M   C. lacteus    Parney Cotoneaster

D   Dasylirion wheeleri    Desert Spoon

D   Dendromecon rigida    Bush Poppy

D   Elaeagnus pungens    Silverberry

D   Eriogonum species    Buckwheat

M   Euonymus Species    Evergreen Euonymus

M   Fatsia japonica    Japanese Aralia

D   Ferocactus species    Barrel cactus

D   Fouquieria splendens    Ocotilla

D   Hesperaloe englemanii    Red Yucca

M/D   Hibiscus syriacus    Rose of Sharon

M   Ilex cornuta “Burfordii’   Buford Holly

M/D   Ilex vomitoria   Yapon Holly

M/D   Juniperus species   Juniper

D   Larrea tridentata    Creosote Bush

D   Lavendula species    Lavender

D   Leucophyllum frutescens    Texas Ranger

M   Ligustrum texanum    Wax Leaf Privet

D   Lycium species    Desert Thorn

M/D   Mahonia aquifolium    Oregon Grape

M   Myrtus communis    True Myrtle

M   M.c. Compacta    Dwarf Myrtle

M   M.c. ‘Boetica’   Tw isted Myrtle

M/D   Nandina domestica   Heavenly Bamboo

M/D   N.d. ‘Nana’   Dwarf Nandina

M/D   Nerium oleander   Oleander

D   Opuntia species   Prickley Pear and Cholla Cactus

M   Osmanthus fragrans   Sweet Olive

D   Pennisetum species   Fountain Grass

D   Penstemon species   Beard Tongue

M   Photinia fraseri    Fraser’s Photinia

M   P. serrulata    Chinese Photinia

M   Pittosporum tobira    Mock Orange

M   P.t. ‘Wheeler’s Dwarf   Wheeler’s Dwarf

D   Teucrium fruticans    Bush Germander

M/D   Puracantha species    Firethorn

M   Raphiolepis indica   Indian Hawthorn

D   Romneya coulteri   Matilija Poppy

D   Phus ovata   Sugarbush

M/D   Rosmarinus officinalis     Bush Rosemary

M/D   R. prostratus    Dwarf Rosemary

D   Santolina chamaecyparissus   Lavander Cotton

D   S. virens   Green Santolina

D   Salvia dorrii   Mojave Sage

M/D   Syringa vulgaris   Common Lilac

D   Yucca alofolia   Spanish Bayonet

D   Y. schidigera    Mojave Yucca

D   Y. Whipplei     Our Lord’s Candle

D   Zauschneria california     California Fuchsia

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]

CHAPTER 17.65
PARKING AND LOADING

   17.65.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.65.020   Applicability

   17.65.030   Location and Development Plan and Building Permit
Required

   17.65.040   General Provisions

   17.65.060   Number of Parking Spaces Required

   17.65.070   Parking Facility Layout and Dimensions

   17.65.080   Parking Facility Development Standards

   17.65.090   Combined or Shared Parking Facilities

   17.65.100   Loading Space Requirements

   17.65.110   Bicycle Parking Standards

17.65.010 Intent and Purpose

   The purpose of the parking and loading regulations is to ensure that
all land uses provide adequate off-street parking facilities and
adequate facilities for vehicle movement and loading activities
associated with a use. The intent of these regulations is to ensure that
the use of land does not negatively interfere with the use of and
circulation on public rights-of-way and that private on-site circulation
does not pose a potential safety problem.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]

17.65.020 Applicability

   (a)   The minimum standards of this Chapter shall apply to all
proposed land uses, buildings, and structures.

   (b)   The minimum standards of this Chapter shall also apply to all
proposed additions, enhancements, and modifications to existing land
uses or structures. At the time the building or structure is modified
and/or enlarged, or the use is modified and/or intensified so as to
cause a need for additional parking, parking and loading spaces shall be
provided for both the existing units and the modified or enlarged
portions of the building and/or use so as to conform to provisions of
this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]

17.65.030 Location and Development Plan and Building Permit Required

   (a)   A Location and Development Plan shall be required for all
required parking facilities. The Plan shall consist of a detailed layout
of the parking facility, site, and parking lot landscaping. The Plan
shall be accurately dimensioned, showing all required parking and
loading spaces, landscaped areas, driving aisles, ingress/egress points,
etc. The Plan shall be submitted and reviewed in conjunction with any
application for planning, land use, engineering, or building permit.

   (b)   A parking facility or driveway shall have building and
engineering permits for the facility or driveway in accordance with
applicable provisions contained in the Municipal Code.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]

17.65.040 General Provisions

   (a)   Location

      The required parking spaces shall be located on the same site with
the primary use or structure, on premises contiguous to them, or in a
location conforming to an approved Location and Development Plan in
compliance with Chapter 17.150 (Location and Development Plan) of this
title. Property within the ultimate right-of-way of a street or highway
shall not be used to provide required parking or loading facilities.

   (b)   Residential Uses

      Required parking facilities for Residential Zone Districts shall
be located on the same lot or parcel of land as the use the parking
facilities are intended to serve, or within a single development as
approved by the Planning Director. The facilities shall be conveniently
and safely located on the site. Required parking facilities provided by
a given project shall be used exclusively for parking purposes by that
project or residence, and shall not be leased, sold, or utilized by
other projects or entities.

      Within a required front yard area, vehicles may be parked only on
a parking space as defined in Section 17.65.080 (Parking Facility
Development Standards) of this Chapter.

      Vehicles may be parked in a side or rear yard area, or within the
buildable area of a lot on a parking space as defined in Section
17.65.080 (Parking Facility Development Standards) of this Chapter,
provided that a minimum of four feet (4') of clearance is provided
between the vehicle and the adjacent outside wall of any structure
containing windows.

   (c)   Non-Residential Uses

      Required parking for non-residential uses shall be located:

      (1)   On the same lot or parcel of land as the use which the
facilities serve; or

      (2)   On an adjoining lot or parcel of land under the same
ownership as the lot supporting the use the parking facilities serve,
provided that the adjoining lot is merged with the property containing
the primary use for which the parking is required; or a covenant of
easement is recorded for parking purposes in accordance with Section
17.65.090(a) (Combined or Shared Parking Facilities).

      (3)   On a lot or parcel of land separated only by an alley (20
feet wide or less) from the lot or parcel supporting the use the parking
facilities serve, provided:

         A.   That said lots or parcels are under the same ownership;
and

         B.   That said lots or parcels would be contiguous if not
separated by the alley; and

         C.   That direct vehicular and pedestrian passage between said
lots or parcels would be possible if the alley were vacated; and

         D.   That the parking and vehicular access on said lots or
parcels can be designed to ensure safe pedestrian movement between the
parking and the property containing the primary use it is intended to
serve; and

         E.   That a Covenant of Easement is recorded for parking
purposes in accordance with Section 17.65.090 (a), or Section 17.65.090
(b) (Combined or Shared Parking Facilities) for joint use of parking
facilities.

   (d)   Change in use

      A change in use that results in a more intensive parking
requirement shall comply with all current parking and loading standards
of this Chapter.

   (e)   Two or more uses

      Where two or more uses are located in the same development or
structure, the parking requirements shall be the sum of the separate
requirements per use, except as specifically provided by this Chapter.

   (f)   Parking and loading spaces to be permanent

      Parking and loading spaces shall be paved and permanently
available, marked and maintained for parking or loading purposes for the
use they are intended to serve. The Director may approve the temporary
reduction of parking or loading spaces in conjunction with a seasonal or
intermittent use with the approval of a Temporary Use Permit issued in
compliance with Chapter 17.75 and 17.155 (Temporary Uses and Structures
and Temporary Use Permits) of this title.

   (g)   Parking and loading to be unrestricted

      Owners, lessees, tenants, or persons having control of the
operation of a premise for which parking or loading spaces are required
by this Chapter shall not prevent, prohibit or restrict authorized
persons from using these spaces without prior approval of the Director.

   (h)   Use of parking area for activities other than parking

      Required off-street parking, circulation, and access areas shall
be used exclusively for the temporary parking and maneuvering of
vehicles and shall not be used for the sale, lease, display, repair, or
storage of vehicles, trailers, boats, campers, mobile homes,
merchandise, or equipment, or for any other use not authorized by the
provisions of this Code.

   (j)   Maintenance

      All required parking and loading space areas including their
driveways and aisle widths shall be maintained in good condition and
available for their intended use. Parking areas shall be kept free of
litter, trash, debris and display or advertising not specifically
approved in accordance with this Zoning Code.

      Inside garage storage shall not encroach into required parking and
loading space areas and vehicles shall not be continuously parked in
these areas. All parked vehicles shall be operable and currently
registered.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]

17.65.060 Number of Parking Spaces Required

   (a)   Required Spaces

   Table 65-2 specifies the number of off-street parking spaces required
for specific uses. The requirement for a use not specifically mentioned
shall be the same as for a specified use which has the most similar
traffic and/or parking generating characteristics. The Planning Director
shall determine what constitutes similar traffic generating
characteristics.

   As provided in Chapter 17.140 (Minor Variances) of this Code, the
Planning Director may approve up to a thirty percent (30%) reduction in
the number of required parking spaces. Reductions of more than thirty
percent (30%) may be approved by the Planning Commission, as provided in
Chapter 17.135 (Major Variances).

TABLE 65-1
NUMBER OF AUTOMOBILE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED

  ----- ---------------------------
  Use   Required Number of Spaces
  ----- ---------------------------

Use

Required Number of Spaces

Residential Uses

Single-family, detached and attached in R1 and DL zone districts

2-car enclosed garage for each unit. Said garage shall have a minimum
clear dimension of 20-feet by 20-feet free of any obstructions including
mechanical equipment.

Duplex units

2-car enclosed garage for each unit

Apartments, condominiums, townhouses, and similar developments

2 spaces per unit, with 1 space required to be covered, plus 1 guest
space for every 2 dwelling units, plus the following:

3 spaces for each on-site rental or sales office for developments of 100
units or less, plus 1 additional space for each additional 100 units or
fraction thereof.

Single car garages shall have a minimum clear dimension of 10-feet by
20-feet free of any obstructions including mechanical equipment.

Mobile home park

2 covered spaces per unit, plus 1 guest space per every 2 units, plus 2
spaces for each on-site sales or rental office

Fraternity-sorority/lodge/bed and breakfast

1 space per bed, plus 1 guest space for every 3 beds

Convalescent facility/residential care facility

1 space for every 4 beds, plus parking for on-site employee housing

Public Assembly and Community Uses

Church, chapel, religious facility, cemetery, mortuary

1 space/3 fixed seats (or 54" of bench seating), or

1 space/25 square feet of gross floor area of assembly area where there
are no fixed seats

Theatres:

 

   Movie - multiple screen

1 space/5 seats, plus 7 spaces for employees

   Movie - single screen

1 space/5 seats, plus 5 spaces for employees

   Live performance

1 space/4 fixed seats

Assembly

1 space/50 square feet of gross floor area

Day care (all types), nursery school

1 space per employee, plus 1 space/10 children (or participants) based
on facility capacity

Private elementary and junior high school

1.5 spaces/classroom, plus 1 space/5 fixed seats in auditorium,
gymnasium or similar public assembly facility, or 1 space/35 SF-GFA of
assembly area where there are no fixed seats

Private high school

1.5 spaces/classroom, plus 1 space/5 students based on maximum student
capacity

College or university (public/private)

1 space/employee, plus 1 space/3 students based on maximum student
capacity

Trade school, business school, adult education (public/private)

1 space/3 students, plus 1 space for each staff member, faculty member,
and employee

Museums, art galleries

1 space/300 SF-GFA

Libraries

1 space/300 SF-GFA

Hospitals and medical centers (providing acute care, clinical, surgical,
teaching, research and office services)

1 space/2 patient beds, plus 1 space for each employee and staff member
on largest shift

Industrial Uses

Ambulance service

1 space per 250 SF-GFA; plus 1 space per service vehicle

Construction yards

1 space per 250 SF-GFA, plus 1 space per 7,000 sq. ft. of yard area

Junk, salvage, vehicle wrecking and impound yard

1 space per 250 SF-GFA; plus 1 space per 7,000 sq. ft. of yard area

Manufacturing and processing uses (not including buildings used
exclusively for warehouse purposes)

1 space/500 SF of industrial/manufacturing area, plus 1 space/250 SF of
office use, plus 1 space/1,000 SF of warehouse area (Note: Buildings in
the MI zone district which are built with the intention of converting to
a more parking-intensive use at a later date may be required to submit a
parking plan showing the configuration of parking for the ultimate use.)

Mini-storage warehouse

1 space/50 storage units; plus 1 space/250 SF-GFA of office area; plus 2
spaces for a caretaker's residence

Recycling facilities, public (collection only)

1 space per 1,000 SF-GFA; plus 1 space per 7,000 sq. ft. of yard area

Recycling facilities, commercial (processing)

1 space per 500 SF-GFA; plus 1 space per 7,000 sq. ft. of yard area.

Research and development

1 space/250 SF-GFA

Upholstery shop, welding shop

1 space per 500 SF-GFA

Warehouse/distribution facility, indoor agriculture

1 space per 1,000 SF-GFA for the first 20,000 sq. ft;

1 space per 2,000 SF-GFA for that portion between 20,000 and 40,000 sq.
ft.;

1 space per 4,000 SF-GFA for that portion over 40,000

Plus 1 space/300 SF-GFA of office use

Office Uses

Medical and dental offices

1 space/250 SF-GFA, with a minimum of 4 spaces

Veterinary office

1 space/250 SF-GFA, with a minimum of 4 spaces

Business and professional

1 space/250 SF-GFA, with a minimum of 4 spaces

Financial services (banks, savings and loans, credit unions)

1 space/250 SF-GFA, with a minimum of 4 spaces

Commercial Uses - Retail, Service, and Other

Automotive/RV service and repair

2 spaces, plus 3 spaces/service bay (service bays do not count as
spaces), parking areas shall not be utilized for storage or overnight
parking. The storage of vehicles/RVs shall be a separate area and
screened from adjacent uses.

Automotive car wash

3/1,000 SF-GLA

Self-service car wash

2 spaces/wash bay (wash bays do not count as spaces)

Automobile sales

1 space/2,000 SF-GLA

Dance studio, karate studio and similar uses

1 space/100 SF-GFA

Furniture stores

1 space/500 SF-GFA

General retail

1 space/250 SF-GFA

If restaurant space occupies more than 10% of total GFA, then additional
parking shall be provided for excess restaurant space beyond the 10%.
The additional parking shall be calculated at the restaurant rate.

Hotels and motels

1 space/guest room, plus additional spaces for restaurant and public
assembly areas as required for those uses

Laundromat

1 space/3 washing machines

Plant nurseries

1 space/1,000 SF indoor GFA, plus 1 space/2,000 SF gross outdoor retail
area

Outdoor sales, including lumber yards, salvage yards

1 space/1,000 SF gross outdoor retail area, plus additional parking as
required for indoor sales area, service facilities, and other uses

Residential sales office (temporary)

3 spaces per model home or unit, including at least 1 space designated
for vehicles displaying a handicapped placard

Temporary sales (Christmas Tree/pumpkins)

1 space per each 500 SF of tree/pumpkin display area. Minimum number of
spaces is subject to review and approval by the City; at least 1 space
must be designated for vehicles displaying an accessible placard.

Recreation Uses

Arcades

1 space/150 SF-GFA

Billiard parlor

2 spaces per billiard table

Bowling alley

5 spaces/lane, plus auxiliary uses calculated separately as required by
this Section

Dance halls

1 space/20 gross SF dance floor area, plus 1 space per 3 fixed seats.
Where there are no fixed seats, 1 space per 20 SF of seating area.

Driving range

Parking requirements subject to case-by-case review

Golf course - regulation and pitch and putt

Parking requirements subject to case-by-case review

Gym, spa, health club

1 space/100 SF-GFA

Miniature golf

1.5 spaces/hole, plus other uses calculated separately as required by
this Section

Skating rink - ice or roller

1 space/100 SF of rink, plus other uses calculated separately as
required by this Section

Public swimming pool (as defined by the Uniform Building Code)

10 spaces, or 1 space/1,000 SF of lot area, plus 1 space/2 employees,
whichever is greater

Handball/racquetball - commercial facility

3 spaces/court, plus other uses calculated separately as required by
this Section

Tennis courts - commercial facility or associated with private club

3 spaces/court, plus other uses calculated separately as required by
this Section

Restaurants

Restaurants (as defined in Chapter 17.200 of this Code)

1 space/100 SF-GFA or 1 space for every 3 persons (as determined by
occupancy load)

Restaurants (drive-through, fast food, and walkup restaurants, as
defined in Chapter 17.200 of this Code)

1 space for every 3 seats or 10 spaces/1,000 SF-GFA, whichever is
greater. A minimum of 5 spaces shall be provided.

Restaurants with drive-through areas must provide at least 6 on-site
queuing spaces for patron vehicles ahead of the menu board, or as
approved by the City

Outdoor dining areas in excess of 16 seats for sit-down or fast food
restaurants

1 space/200 SF of outdoor seating area or 1 space for every 3 seats,
whichever is greater

Abbreviations: SF = square feet, GFA = gross floor area, GLA = gross
land area

 

   (b)   Fractional Spaces

      If the calculation of required parking spaces results in a
fractional number, that number shall be rounded up to the next whole
number.

   (c)   Accessible Parking

      Accessible parking requirements are established by Title 24 of the
State of California. The parking standards contained in this section are
identical to those established by the State at the time of the adoption
of this Zoning Code. Any change in the State’s accessible parking
requirements shall preempt the affected requirements in this section.

      (1)   Number of Spaces Required.

         A.   Multi-Family Residential Uses. Accessible parking spaces
shall be provided at a minimum rate of two percent (2%) of the
multi-family dwelling units assigned parking spaces. At least one (1)
space of each type of parking facility (garage, private garage, carport,
and open parking spaces) shall be made accessible even if the total
number exceeds 2 percent. At least 5 percent of unassigned or guest
parking spaces shall be accessible.

         B.   Required handicapped parking spaces shall count toward
fulfilling off-street parking requirements.

         C.   Van accessible spaces shall be provided at a rate of one
in every eight accessible spaces.

         D.   In the event only one handicapped parking space is
required, such space shall be van accessible.

         E.   Accessible parking spaces shall be provided for all uses,
other than as specified above, at the following rate:

TABLE 65-2
NUMBER OF ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED

  ----------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------
  Total Number of Parking Spaces Provided   Number of Handicapped Parking Spaces Required
  ----------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------

  ----------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  Total Number of Parking Spaces Provided   Number of Handicapped Parking Spaces Required
  1 - 25                                    1
  26 - 50                                   2
  51 - 75                                   3
  76 - 100                                  4
  101 - 150                                 5
  151 - 200                                 6
  201 - 300                                 7
  301 - 400                                 8
  401 - 500                                 9
  501 - 1,000                               2% of total
  1,001 and over                            20 plus one for each 100, or fraction over 1,001
                                            
  ----------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------

 

      (2)   Accessible Parking Size and Location. Accessible parking
spaces shall have the following dimensions:

         A.   Where single spaces are provided, they shall be 14-feet
wide and lined to provide a 9-foot parking area and a 5-foot loading and
unloading access aisle on the passenger side of the vehicle.

         B.   A double accessible space can be provided with a 23-foot
wide area lined to provide a 9-foot parking area on each side of a
5-foot loading and unloading access aisle in the center.

         C.   Van accessible spaces shall provide an 8-foot wide loading
and unloading access aisle.

         D.   All spaces shall be located near or convenient to a level
or ramped entrance, not exceeding five percent (5%) slope, to the
facility served by the parking space.

         E.   Parking spaces for the handicapped shall be signed and
restricted for use by the handicapped only.

      (3)   Any revisions to Title 24 of the California Government Code
shall supersede these requirements.

   (d)   Compact Parking

      Compact parking spaces are not permitted. However, such spaces
existing on the effective date of this Zoning Code shall be exempted.
Parking lots which contain compact spaces as of the effective date of
this Code which are re-striped to eliminate compact spaces will not be
subject to the parking requirements of this Chapter, if the elimination
of compact spaces results in a deficit of parking (as calculated using
the standards in this Chapter).

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]

17.65.070 Parking Facility Layout and Dimensions

   Parking facilities shall be designed to be fully accessible, adequate
and safe ingress and egress shall be provided from and to a street,
highway, alley, or driveway and shall conform to the following minimum
standards:

   (a)   Parking Space Dimensions

      (1)   Standard Spaces

         The minimum size of a standard parking space shall be nine feet
wide and eighteen feet long (9' x 18').

      (2)   Parallel Spaces

         The minimum size of a parallel parking space shall be nine feet
wide and twenty-four feet long (9' x 24').

   (b)   Parking Access

      Access leading to parking facilities, including garages for
private residences, shall meet the following dimensions:

      (1)   Width - The minimum width for driveways and drive aisles
shall be twenty feet (20') for one-way traffic and twenty-six feet (26')
for two-way traffic. Where one-way drives exist, pavement graphics and
directional signs and arrows shall be provided. Greater widths may be
required at the discretion of the City.

      (2)   Minimum Residential Driveway Length - Driveways for single
family or duplex units in any zoning district shall be a minimum of
twenty feet (20') in length as measured from the back of sidewalk to the
front of the garage door.

      (3)   Limit on Residential Driveways - The number of permitted
driveways shall be one per fifty feet (50') of lot frontage, or fraction
thereof, not to exceed a total of two (2) driveways. A curved driveway
with two (2) entrances shall count as one (1) driveway for the purposes
of this section.

      (4)   Non-residential Driveway Spacing - The distance between
non-residential driveways; and between non-residential driveways and
public rights-of-way shall conform to the City’s Public Works standards.

      (5)   Maneuvering Areas - Except for residential uses of two (2)
or fewer units per building site, access facilities adjoining roadways
classified as Collector Street or higher in the General Plan Circulation
Element shall be arranged so that any vehicle can leave the parking area
and enter into an adjoining vehicular right-of-way traveling in a
forward direction.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16; Ord.
No. 583, Section 3, 2/28/18.]

17.65.080 Parking Facility Development Standards

   (a)   Paving Required

      (1)   All parking spaces and associated driveways shall be
entirely paved with concrete or asphalt-type surfacing as per City
standards and requirements.

      (2)   All newly constructed driveways and parking areas shall be
concrete, asphalt, or as otherwise approved by the City.

      (3)   Parking on areas which do not meet the above standards shall
be prohibited.

   (b)   Parking Space Delineation

      All parking spaces shall be clearly delineated with a 4-inch wide
double stripe, a 4-inch gap between stripes, and an overall width of 12
inches wide and 20 feet long. The ends of the striping can be rounded or
squared. In order to maintain the 9-foot wide parking space standard
mentioned above, parking striping shall be spaced center to center.

   (c)   Construction

      (1)   All driveways and parking areas shall be constructed and
striped in accordance with road and drainage standards established by
the City Engineer and the Fire Department.

      (2)   Wheel stops, ground-mounted bumpers, and similar devices are
permitted. Curbs shall be used in conjunction with landscaped areas, as
approved by the City.

   (d)   Lighting

      (1)   All on-site lighting shall be energy efficient, stationary
and directed away from adjoining properties and public rights-of-way.

      (2)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light is emitted
above the horizontal plane of the bottom of the light fixture.

      (3)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light above 0.5
foot-candle spills over onto adjacent properties and rights-of-way.
There shall be no spillover (0.0 foot-candle) onto adjacent residential
used or zoned properties.

   (e) Landscaping and Screening

      Parking lot landscaping shall be provided and maintained as
required in Chapter 17.60 and 17.15 of this Zoning Code.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]

17.65.090 Combined or Shared Parking Facilities

   (a)   For Uses on Separate Lots or Parcels

      Required parking facilities for non-residential uses may be
provided collectively for two (2) or more buildings or uses located on
the same or separate contiguous lots or parcels of land, provided that
the total combined parking facilities meet or exceed all other minimum
parking capacity requirements for the buildings or uses. A covenant,
approved as to form by the City Attorney, shall be recorded describing
the combined parking arrangement and granting reciprocal access rights
to the parking facilities.

   (b)   Shared Parking Facilities

      Where two (2) or more uses are sharing parking facilities, the
applicant may propose the use of shared parking, provided that a “Shared
Parking Analysis” is approved by the City, demonstrating that sufficient
parking will be provided at all times for all uses. Such Shared Parking
Analysis shall be prepared pursuant to guidelines published by the Urban
Land Institute or other guidelines as approved the City. Where separate
parcels exist within a single development, a parking agreement shall be
required, per Section 17.65.090(a), above.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]

17.65.100 Loading Space Requirements

   (a)   Number of Spaces Required

      (1)   For commercial uses, loadings spaces shall be provided in
accordance with the following:

TABLE 65-3
Minimum Required Loading Spaces - Commercial

 

  -------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gross Floor Area           Minimum Spaces Required
  Less than 25,000 sq. ft.   1 small space (12 ft. by 20 ft.)
  25,001 to 50,000 sq. ft.   2 small spaces (12 ft. by 20 ft.)
  Over 50,001 sq. ft.        1 large space per unit (12 ft. by 45 ft.), plus 1 additional large space for each additional 50,000 square feet, with a maximum of 4 spaces required
  -------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

         (2)   In Light Manufacturing, Manufacturing/Industrial, and
Airport Development Districts, loadings spaces shall be provided in
accordance with the following:

TABLE 65-4
Minimum Required Loading Spaces - Industrial

 

  -------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gross Floor Area           Minimum Spaces Required
  Less than 50,000 sq. ft.   1 small space per unit (12 ft. by 20 ft.)
  Over 50,001 sq. ft.        1 large space per unit (12 ft. by 45 ft.), plus 1 additional large space for each additional 50,000 square feet, with a maximum of 4 spaces required
  -------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

      (3)   Required loading spaces in other Districts will be
determined on a case by case basis, depending on the requirements of
each project.

   (b)   Dimensions

      The dimensions of loading spaces shall be as specified in the
table above.

   (c)   Location

      All loading areas shall be located adjacent to loading doors and
outside of any required aisles or other circulation areas. Adequate
turning radii shall be provided to allow a vehicle to maneuver without
backing into a street or without backing into the loading space from the
street.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]

17.65.110 Bicycle Parking Standards

   (a)   Bicycle Parking

      Parking spaces for bicycles shall be provided as required by Table
65-5. For any use for which bicycle parking is required, a minimum of
four (4) bicycle spaces shall be provided.

TABLE 65-5
NUMBER OF BICYCLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED

  ----- -----------------------------------------
  Use   Required Spaces - % of Auto Requirement
  ----- -----------------------------------------

Use

Required Spaces - % of Auto Requirement

Residential Uses

Single-family

0

Multi-family

1 space per each four units

Public Assembly and Community Uses

Child Care, Preschools, Senior Centers

10%

Libraries, Auditoriums, Museums, Galleries, Stadiums, Theaters

5%

Private Schools, Private Colleges, Trade Schools

20%

Industrial Uses

Manufacturing and Warehousing

10%

Office Uses

Banks, Savings and Loans

15%

General Office

10%

Medical, Dental, and Veterinary Offices

5%

Commercial Uses

Bowling Alleys, Billiard Parlors, Roller and Ice Rinks, Private Clubs

10%

Health Clubs and Studios

10%

Hospitals and Medical Centers

10%

Hotels and Motels

5%

Restaurant

10%

Retail

10%

 

   (b)   Separation from Automobile Parking

      Bicycle parking spaces shall be separated from automobile parking
spaces or aisles by a wall, fence, or curb, or by at least five feet
(5') of open space where parking is prohibited.

   (c)   Access

      Free and clear access directly from a public right-of-way or drive
aisle shall be provided and maintained. Aisles or walkways providing
access to bicycle parking spaces shall be at least five feet (5') wide.

   (d)   Signs

      Signs indicating location of bicycle parking shall be placed on
the site, as determined on a case by case basis.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13;
Ord. No. 528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]

CHAPTER 17.67
TRIP REDUCTION

   17.67.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.67.020   Additional Parking and Loading Requirements

   17.67.030   Transit Facilities

   17.67.040   Video Conferencing

   17.67.050   Telecommuting Centers

   17.67.060   Timing

17.67.010 Intent and Purpose

   Use of the private automobile in Southern California has created
serious traffic congestion and air quality problems. At the regional and
local levels, government agencies have adopted policies and programs
aimed at reducing the number of single-passenger vehicles traveling
along the region’s highways and thereby alleviating congestion and
improving air quality. The trip reduction measures contained in this
Chapter are intended to help meet regional congestion management and air
quality goals.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit O, 9/10/14.]

17.67.020 Additional Parking and Loading Requirements

   In addition to the parking requirements contained in Chapter 17.65 of
this Zoning Code, the following parking standards shall apply:

   (a)   Carpool/Vanpool Parking - Office Development and Business Parks

      For all new developments in the MU, BP, LM, MI and ADD zoning
districts, a minimum of three (3) parking spaces shall be reserved for
use by carpool/vanpool users for each fifty (50) total spaces. The
carpool/vanpool spaces shall be located in close proximity to each
building in an office or business park facility. Carpool/ vanpool spaces
shall be included in the total parking count as shown in the example
below:

 

  --------------------------------- ----
  Total spaces required             50
  Carpool/Vanpool spaces required   3
  Standard spaces (50 - 3)          47
  Total spaces provided (47 + 3)    50
  --------------------------------- ----

 

      All carpool/vanpool spaces shall be signed to identify them as
reserved for these users, and shall be designed to accommodate
full-sized passenger vans.

   (b)   Residential Project Requirements

      For projects consisting of ten (10) or more attached apartment or
condominium units, the following requirements shall apply:

      (1)   Each building shall be directly accessible to a public
roadway via sidewalks or paved walkways.

      (2)   Each project providing one hundred (100) or more parking
spaces shall provide a passenger loading area in close proximity to the
main entrance to each building. This area shall be equal in size to five
(5) standard parking spaces.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit O, 9/10/14.]

17.67.030 Transit Facilities

   Transit facilities such as bus turnouts, bus stops and shelters, and
bus pads shall be required if determined to be necessary by the Planning
Director.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit O, 9/10/14.]

17.67.040 Video Conferencing

   One (1) on-site video conferencing facilities shall be provided in
each office building of 200,000 square feet or larger in size. In an
office development where no single building exceeds 200,000 square feet,
but the aggregate of all buildings exceeds 300,000 square feet, one (1)
on-site video conferencing facility accessible to tenants from each
building shall be provided. Video conferencing facilities shall provide
the capability to provide voice and data connections with other video
conferencing facilities.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit O, 9/10/14.]

17.67.050 Telecommuting Centers

   Each single-family subdivision consisting of five hundred (500) or
more homes or each mixed-use project containing five hundred (500) or
more homes shall either provide one (1) telecommuting center or an
in-lieu payment to the City sufficient to construct and staff such a
center for a period of at least five (5) years.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit O, 9/10/14.]

17.67.060 Timing

   (a)   For non-residential uses, all facilities and improvements
required by this Chapter shall be constructed or otherwise provided
prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for any new building
or addition to an existing building subject to the requirements of this
Chapter.

   (b)   For residential uses, all facilities and improvements required
by this Section shall be provided prior to the issuance of any
certificates of occupancy for more than the first half of the total
number of dwelling units. For example, in a project which includes six
hundred (600) single-family homes, required facilities and improvements
would need to be provided prior to the issuance of Certificates of
Occupancy for units 301 and above.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit O, 9/10/14.]

CHAPTER 17.70
SIGNS

   17.70.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.70.020   Applicability

   17.70.030   Administration

   17.70.040   Sign Permits and Exemptions

   17.70.050   Prohibited Signs and Sign Devices

   17.70.055   Off-Site Residential Subdivision Signs

   17.70.060   Signs in Residential Districts

   17.70.065   Political Signs

   17.70.070   Signs in Commercial Districts

   17.70.080   Signs in Industrial Districts

   17.70.090   Highway/Freeway Identification Signs

   17.70.100   Sign Programs

   17.70.110   Temporary Signs

   17.70.115   Billboard Overlay Zone (B-O Zone)

   17.70.120   Definitions

17.70.010 Intent and Purpose

   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to outline regulations
which promote economic development, but are fair, comprehensive, and
enforceable while allowing the City of Adelanto to create and maintain
safe and aesthetically pleasing building elevations and streetscapes.
These regulations serve to balance the need to protect the public safety
and welfare, the need for a well maintained and attractive community,
and the need for adequate identification, communication and advertising
for land uses.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]

17.70.020 Applicability

   The sign standards provided in this Chapter shall apply to signs in
all land use zoning districts in the City. Only signs authorized by this
Chapter shall be allowed in the specified zoning district, unless
otherwise expressly provided in this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]

17.70.030 Administration

   (a)   Administration

      The Director is authorized by the City Council to administer and
enforce the provisions of this Chapter, unless otherwise provided in
this Chapter. The Director may designate a representative to act in
his/her place.

   (b)   Interpretation

      (1)   This Chapter shall be interpreted in a manner which best
fulfills the intent of its provisions.

      (2)   Questions arising from the application of this Chapter shall
be interpreted by the Director. If any inconsistency still exists in the
interpretation, an appeal application shall be referred to the Planning
Commission for its determination.

   (c)   Appeals

      (1)   Any decision or determination by the Director may be
appealed to the Planning Commission in accordance with the provisions of
this Zoning Code.

      (2)   Any decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed to
the City Council in accordance with the provisions of this Zoning Code.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]

17.70.040 Sign Permits and Exemptions

   (a)   Sign Permits Required

      No exterior sign shall be erected, placed, displayed, or altered,
including change of face, without the issuance of a sign permit by the
Planning Division, unless exempted by subsection 17.70.040(c) (Exempt
Signs). Building and/or electrical permits may also be required from the
Building Division.

   (b)   Applications and Fees

      (1)   Applications for sign permits shall be submitted to the
Planning Division and be accompanied by the information, materials and
submittal requirements as specified on the application.

      (2)   Fees shall be paid as established by the City fee schedule.

      (3)   Fees shall be doubled for signs erected or placed prior to
issuance of a sign permit or any required building and electrical
permits.

   (c)   Exempt Signs

      The following signs shall be exempt from the requirements of this
Development code and applicable specific plans:

      (1)   Holiday display and decorations not to exceed 60 days.

      (2)   Signs located inside a structure, courtyard, mall, or other
similar structure, provided these signs are not conspicuously visible
and readable from a public street.

      (3)   Utility company signs identifying conduits, cables,
dangerous conditions, or providing other notices of this type.

      (4)   Memorial tablets or signs and historic markers.

      (5)   Signs, flags, banners, emblems, or notices issued or
endorsed by a constituted government body, public agency, court, person,
or officer in performance of a public duty, including traffic or highway
signs, railroad crossing signs or similar regulatory or warning devices
and legal notices.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]

17.70.050 Prohibited Signs and Sign Devices

   (a)   Prohibited Signs

      Any sign not specifically allowed by this ordinance is prohibited.
The following devices used to attract pedestrian or vehicular attention
are prohibited in the City of Adelanto.

      (1)   A-Frames, Portable Signs.

      (2)   Beacon Lights. Except as specifically allowed by this
ordinance for a Special Promotion period or as part of a Grand Opening
period not to exceed a 30 day period.

      (3)   Bus Bench Signs and Signs on Transit Stop Enclosures unless
initiated by the City in order to enhance the bus shelter.

      (4)   Flashing or Animated Signs.

      (5)   Graffiti.

      (6)   Inflatable Devices.

      (7)   Mobile Signs. Excludes signs painted on vehicles unless the
Director determines such a vehicle is being utilized for advertising
purposes beyond that approved for signage on a site. In such case the
Director may require a business to remove or relocate such vehicle.

      (8)   Off-Premise Signs and Billboards, other than those located
in a B-O Zone.

      (9)   Projecting Signs. Any sign that projects out from a
building, or any projections from a freestanding sign that extend over a
driveway, sidewalk, or public street. Minor projections may be allowed
with approval of a Sign Program that incorporates a design scheme with
projections.

      (10)   Roof Signs.

      (11)   Sexually Oriented Signs. Any display, decoration, sign or
show window that provides the observation of any material depicting,
describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.

      (12)   Statuary. Statuary bearing the likeness or suggestion of
any product or logo unless as approved as a monument sign.

      (13)   Temporary Signs. Except as specifically allowed by this
ordinance (see Section 17.70.110 Temporary Signs).

   (b)   Hand-bills and Signs in Public Places

      (1)   Except as otherwise stipulated, no person shall paint, mark
or write on, or post or otherwise affix, any hand-bill or sign to or
upon any sidewalk, crosswalk, curb, curbstone, park strip, street lamp
post, hydrant, tree, shrub, tree stake or guard, railroad trestle,
public utility pole (i.e., electric, light or power or telephone or
telegraph or trolley wire pole) or wire appurtenance thereof or upon any
lighting system, public bridge, drinking fountain, life saving
equipment, street sign or traffic sign.

      (2)   Any hand-bill or sign found posted upon any public property
contrary to the provisions of this section may be removed by any
designated City of Adelanto employee. The person responsible for any
such illegal posting shall be liable for the cost incurred in the
removal thereof and the City is authorized to effect the collection of
said cost.

      (3)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the installation of a
metal plaque or plate or individual letters or figures in a sidewalk
commemorating a historical, cultural, or artistic event, location, or
personality for which the Department of Public Works has granted a
written permit.

      (4)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the painting of house
numbers upon curbs.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14;
Ord. No. 611, 4/22/20.]

17.70.055 Off-Site Residential Subdivision Signs

   The following regulations shall control the location and design of
all off-site residential housing identification signs. Only signs
installed consistent with these requirements shall be allowed. A
residential subdivision shall be defined as a housing project within a
recorded tract. This section may be referred to as the City’s kiosk sign
program.

   (a)   General Provisions

      (1)   Off-site Residential Subdivision Signs shall be considered
temporary and will be removed upon the completion of the sale of houses
within the identified subdivision.

      (2)   The size of the permitted signs shall be as follows:

         (A)   Kiosk structures may utilize a combination of 12, 24 or
36-inch wide panels.

         (B)   Freestanding monument structures shall have a maximum 32
square foot sign area. Signs shall not exceed fifteen (15) feet in
height.

         (C)   Temporary weekend signs, shall have a maximum sign area
of six (6) square feet, two (2) feet high and three (3) feet wide, with
a maximum height of four (4) feet.

         (D)   Nothing shall prevent the City of Adelanto from utilizing
the structures to identify local public or civic facilities of
importance to the City.

   (b)   Location Requirements

      (1)   The City shall prepare or have prepared by others a
comprehensive plan identifying the location of all kiosk and
freestanding signs, excluding weekend signs, throughout the City limits.
The location and spacing of weekend signs shall be established by the
City as a matter of policy. The comprehensive program shall be subject
to change as projects complete their sales programs and new projects are
approved.

      (2)   Off-site directional signs shall be allowed on private and
public property.

      (3)   All signs proposed on private or public property must
receive written authorization from the affected property owner prior to
their installation.

      (4)   The placement of all signs shall avoid locations that may
create a hazardous condition for pedestrians and vehicles.

      (5)   The location of all signs shall be subject to relocation due
to street construction, improvement of the subject property or other
actions that affect the location of individual signs.

      (6)   The comprehensive sign program and the location of all signs
provided for as part of that plan shall be approved by the Planning
Director or his designee prior to their installation.

      (7)   Proposed signs that are visible from U.S. Highway 395 or
Palmdale Road (Highway 18) are subject to CalTrans review and approval
prior to Planning Department approval and Building permit issuance.

   (c)   Time Limits

      All signs subject to this section shall be limited to the
following time periods:

      (1)   All signs shall be allowed for up to 24-months.

      (2)   Extensions can be granted for up to 24-months.

      (3)   No maximum time limit exists.

   (d)   Restrictions

      (1)   The off-site residential subdivision signs allowed within
this section shall be limited to identifying housing projects within the
city limits. Housing projects outside the city limits shall only be
identified if that city has:

         (A)   A similar kiosk program to that provided by the City of
Adelanto; and

         (B)   Allowance is made for housing projects within the City of
Adelanto on its kiosk signs.

      (2)   No additions, tag signs, streamers, devices, display boards
or other appurtenances shall be added to the signs as originally
approved.

      (3)   Only the types of directional signs specified within this
section shall be allowed. Posters, trailers or other devices used for
advertising shall be prohibited.

[Ord. 422; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P,
9/10/14.]

17.70.060 Signs in Residential Districts

   No sign, outdoor advertising structure, or display of any kind shall
be permitted in Residential Zones, except as specifically allowed by
this ordinance.

   (a)   On-site Subdivision and Mobilehome Park identification Signs

      (1)   One (1) wall or monument identification or landscape wall
sign per public street entrance to the project, not to exceed a maximum
of two (2) such signs, not exceeding twenty-four (24) square feet
maximum each.

      (2)   Maximum allowable height shall be six (6) feet and may not
extend above a wall or fence.

      (3)   Each monument sign should be located within a landscaped
area which is of a shape and design that will provide a compatible
setting and ground definition to the sign.

      (4)   Such identification signs shall only be allowed if
maintenance responsibility is assigned to a community association or a
park owner for mobilehome parks.

   (b)   Multi-Family Residential Uses

      (1)   Apartments and multi-family residential developments having
more than four (4) units may be permitted a cumulative sign area per
project frontage containing no more than one (1) square foot per each
ten (10) feet of linear frontage and shall not exceed a maximum of
twenty-four (24) square feet per frontage. Such signs may be monument or
wall signs.

      (2)   Sign Copy shall be limited to the name of the complex,
address, and manager’s phone number.

      (3)   Monument signs shall have an overall maximum height of six
(6) feet and shall be located within a landscaped area that will provide
a compatible setting and ground definition to the sign.

      (4)   A wall sign shall be located below the roof eave, awning or
canopy, and be fastened parallel to the surface of the main building and
may be placed at a height not greater than two-thirds of the height of
the building surface upon which it is located.

      (5)   All signs shall be compatible with the theme or architecture
and scale of the development.

   (c)   Directory Signs

      (1)   For multi-family residential developments of twelve (12) or
more units or mobilehome parks, one (1) site directory monument sign per
vehicle entrance may be allowed where necessary to direct visitors and
emergency vehicles to buildings. Such signs shall be in a accordance
with the following:

         (A)   Maximum sign area shall not exceed twenty-four (24)
square feet.

         (B)   Sign height shall not exceed six (6) feet.

         (C)   Signs shall locate buildings, driveways locations and
addresses for each building.

         (D)   Fire hydrant or Knox box locations shall also be shown as
required by Fire District regulations.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]

17.70.065 Political Signs

   It is expected that candidates for City Council will want to use
campaign signs to promote their candidacy. The City asks that each
candidate keep in mind the best interests of the community, through
compliance with the following:

   (a)   Political and election signs, including their supporting
structures, shall be permitted on private property and public
rights-of-way in all zoning districts.

   (b)   Signs advertising a political candidate, political party, or
ballot measure may be displayed only during a period beginning
forty-five (45) days before the election or vote and ending fourteen
(14) days after the election or vote.

   (c)   No person shall install or maintain or cause to be installed or
maintained any sign which simulates or imitates in size, color,
lettering, or design any traffic sign or signal, or which makes use of
words, “STOP,” “LOOK,” or “danger,” or any words, phrases, symbols, or
characters in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse
traffic.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]

17.70.070 Signs in Commercial Districts

   No sign, outdoor advertising structure, or display of any kind shall
be permitted for nonresidential uses except as specifically allowed by
this Chapter.

   (a)   Signs for Free-Standing Single Tenant Buildings and Sites

      (1)   Wall Signs

         (A)   The maximum sign area per building frontage shall be one
(1) square foot per linear foot of building frontage. Any wall sign
removed or obstructed due to construction of an adjacent building cannot
be relocated unless a new sign permit is obtained and it complies with
all the requirements of this Chapter.

         (B)   Awnings or canopy signs may be allowed, with their sign
area allocated against the total cumulative sign area for wall signs.

         (C)   Window signs may also be allowed to identify the business
or use. The maximum sign area shall not exceed 25% of the window area.

         (D)   Nameplate sign may not exceed one (1) square foot in
size.

      (2)   Free-Standing Monument Signs

         (A)   Free-Standing pole signs are not permitted; only monument
or Pylon style signs are permitted. Pylon signs shall have two
supporting towers on either side of the sign with a minimum dimension of
twelve inches by twelve inches (12" x 12").

         (B)   No more than one free-standing monument sign is permitted
for each street frontage.

         (C)   The maximum sign area allowed for free-standing monument
signs shall be one (1) square foot per ten (10) linear feet of street
frontage on which the sign is located.

         (D)   No single sign shall exceed thirty-six (36) square feet
in area.

         (E)   The address or address range of the property shall be
incorporated on the sign visible from public right-of-way and no larger
than one (1) square foot in area.

         (F)   Maximum height of a free-standing monument sign shall not
exceed eight (8) feet.

         (G)   Monument signs located near street intersections and
driveways shall be setback out of the Clear Area per Section 17.10.080 .

         (H)   “Reader boards” or similar devices for showing changing
text and/or graphic messages may be used and shall count towards the
permitted sign area. Reader board content shall be limited to the date,
time, temperature, and messages directly related to business or site
use. Advertisement of off-site uses is prohibited.

      (3)   Projecting or Shingle Signs

         Small projecting, shingle or suspended signs may be permitted
subject to the following:

         (A)   A maximum of one (1) such sign per building entrance is
permitted provided that it is perpendicular to the main face of the
building suspended from a canopy or projects not more than three (3)
feet from the building face.

         (B)   Projecting or shingle signs shall not exceed two (2)
square feet in area and shall have a minimum ground clearance of eight
(8) feet.

         (C)   All such signs shall be non-energized or non-electrical.

   (b)   Signs for Tenants within Shopping Centers and Multiple Tenant
Buildings

      (1)   Sign Programs

         A sign program shall be required for all business or shopping
centers or any group of business uses with shared signs facilities to
insure that all signs are integrated and compatible. Sign programs shall
comply with all of the provisions of Section 17.70.100 Sign Programs.
All signs in such development shall comply with the provisions of the
approved sign program in addition to the provisions of this Chapter.

      (2)   Wall Signs

         (A)   The maximum sign area per building or unit frontage shall
be one (1) square foot per linear foot of building or unit frontage.
Subject to the approval of a sign program, the property owner may
apportion the sign area to individual uses or overall building, or
certain identification, provided that the total cumulative sign area is
not exceeded.

         (B)   Any wall sign removed or obstructed due to construction
of an adjacent building cannot be relocated unless a new sign permit is
obtained and it complies with all the requirements of this Chapter.

         (C)   Awnings or canopy signs may be allowed, with their sign
area allocated against the total cumulative sign area for wall signs.

         (D)   Window signs may also be allowed to identify the business
or use. The maximum sign area shall not exceed 25% of the window area.

         (E)   Nameplate sign may not exceed one (1) square foot in
size.

      (3)   Free-Standing Signs

         (A)   Free-Standing pole signs are not permitted; only monument
or Pylon style signs are permitted. Pylon signs shall have two
supporting towers on either side of the sign with a minimum dimension of
twelve inches by twelve inches (12" x 12").

         (B)   The maximum sign area allowed for free-standing signs
shall be two (2) square feet per ten (10) linear feet of street frontage
on which the sign is located.

         (C)   No single-sign shall exceed two hundred (200) square
feet.

         (D)   No more than two free standing signs are permitted for
each street frontage. Spacing shall be subject to Table 70-1 below.

         (E)   Monument signs located near street intersections and
driveways shall be setback out of the Clear Area per Section 17.10.080 .

         (F)   “Reader boards” or similar devices for showing changing
text and/or graphic messages may be used and shall count towards the
permitted sign area. Reader board content shall be limited to the date,
time, temperature, and messages directly related to business or site
use. Advertisement of off-site uses is prohibited.

         (G)   Maximum height and separation of free-standing signs
shall comply with the following:

            (1)   Center identification signs shall meet the maximum
sign heights and minimum sign spacing specified below:

TABLE 70-1
FREE-STANDING SIGN HEIGHT AND SPACING STANDARDS

 

  -------------------------------------- ---------------- --------------------- -----------------
  Road Designation                       Gross Lot Area   Maximum Sign Height   Minimum Spacing
  Highways or Major Streets/Boulevards   20 ac or more    25 feet               300 feet
  Highways or Major Streets/Boulevards   5 to 19.99 ac    15 feet               200 feet
  Highways or Major Streets/Boulevards   Less than 5 ac   8 feet                150 feet
  Collector                              Any lot area     8 feet                *
  -------------------------------------- ---------------- --------------------- -----------------

 

   *   Minimum sign spacing shall comply per net lot area as Major
Streets/Boulevards

            (2)   Other free-standing signs which may be permitted for a
center shall not exceed a maximum height of eight (8) feet.

         (H)   Subject to approval of a sign program, the property owner
may apportion the sign area to individual uses or overall center or
building identification, provided that the total cumulative sign area
per each type of sign is not exceeded. This allows a center to apportion
sign area for free-standing signs, for example, between a center
identification sign and monument signs for individual free-standing
tenants in accordance with the maximum number of permitted signs per lot
and/or development.

         (I)   The address or address range of the property shall be
incorporated on the sign visible from public right-of-way and no larger
than four (4) square feet in area.

         (J)   All free-standing signs in excess of eight (8) feet in
height shall reflect high quality, enhance community design and be
harmonious with the desert character through the following:

            (1)   Is compatible with the structures and uses located on
the site by incorporating elements of the architecture and/or natural
features of the site, without dominating the site;

            (2)   Makes use of high quality and/or natural or indigenous
building materials, including, but not limited to, rock, adobe, timber,
carved wood and incised lettering in stone;

            (3)   Identifies the site or use without extensive sign copy
(text) by use of graphic imagery and/or logo; and

            (4)   Utilizes reverse channel lettering or opaque sign
field (background) with illuminated routed copy.

         (K)   Fast Food Menu Boards

            (1)   Fast food restaurants with drive-through or walk-up
facilities may be allowed two (2) menu or reader boards with a total
maximum area of thirty-six (36) square feet, with a maximum height of
six (6) feet.

            (2)   Any pictures, photographs, representations, or logos
within or on the perimeter of the board shall be included in the
computation of the maximum area of such boards.

            (3)   The menu board shall be located at such a point that
there are at least 3 cars queued between the service window and the menu
board; and at least 3 cars queued from the menu board to the entrance of
the drive-through.

         (L)   Automated Service Facilities

            Signs for drive-up or walk-up service windows or machines
whether free-standing or incorporated into a building, require special
consideration for which uniform sign regulations cannot be established
because of their unlimited variety and character. Therefore, the sign
allowance for such facilities shall be determined on the basis of their
function and use, when the sign permit application is being reviewed.

            (1)   In no event shall such signs exceed five (5) square
feet in area.

            (2)   Automated service signs shall not be allowed as a
method of increasing the basic sign allowance for the principal use or
the function as off-site advertising of the principal use. Examples of
such facilities are drive-up or walk up machines for banking and
drive-up or walk-up windows for restaurants, grocery stores, and film
processing.

      (4)   Projecting or Shingle Signs

         Small projecting, shingle or suspended signs may be permitted
subject to the following:

         (A)   A maximum of one (1) such sign per building entrance is
permitted provided that it is perpendicular to the main face of the
building suspended from a canopy or projects not more than three (3)
feet from the building face.

         (B)   Projecting or shingle signs shall not exceed two (2)
square feet in area and shall have a minimum ground clearance of eight
(8) feet.

         (C)   All such signs shall be non-energized or non-electrical.

   (c)   Service Stations

      Signs for service stations shall be the same as for other
businesses, except the following:

      (1)   Free-standing signs shall not be within one hundred (100)
feet of another free-standing sign on the same property.

      (2)   Signs on dispensers and dispenser islands shall be limited
to identification and directions for use of pumps or payments, or other
signs required by State regulations.

      (3)   Video display terminals on dispenser and dispenser islands
shall not exceeding fifteen (15) inches, measured diagonally.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]

17.70.080 Signs in Industrial Districts

   No sign, outdoor advertising structure, or display of any kind shall
be permitted in Industrial Zones, except as specifically allowed by this
ordinance.

   (a)   Signs for Free-Standing Single Tenant Buildings and Sites

      (1)   Wall Signs

         (A)   The maximum sign area per building or unit frontage shall
be one-half (1/2) square foot per linear foot of building or unit
frontage.

         (B)   Any wall sign removed or obstructed due to construction
of an adjacent building cannot be relocated unless a new sign permit is
obtained and it complies with all the requirements of this Chapter.

         (C)   Awnings or canopy signs may be allowed, with their sign
area allocated against the total cumulative sign area for wall signs.

         (D)   Window signs may also be allowed to identify the business
or use. The maximum sign area shall not exceed 25% of the window area.

         (E)   Nameplate sign may not exceed one (1) square foot in
size.

      (2)   Free-Standing Monument Signs

         (A)   Free-Standing pole signs are not permitted; only monument
or pylon style signs are permitted. Pylon signs shall have two
supporting towers on either side of the sign with a minimum dimension of
twelve inches by twelve inches (12" x 12").

         (B)   No more than one free-standing monument or pylon sign is
permitted for each street frontage.

         (C)   The maximum sign area allowed for free-standing monument
signs shall be one (1) square foot per ten (10) linear feet of street
frontage on which the sign is located.

         (D)   No single sign shall exceed sixty (60) square feet.

         (E)   Maximum height of a free-standing monument sign shall not
exceed eight (8) feet.

         (F)   The address or address range of the property shall be
incorporated on the sign visible from public right-of-way and no larger
than one (1) square foot in area.

         (G)   Monument signs located near street intersections and
driveways shall be setback out of the Clear Area per Section 17.10.080 .

         (H)   “Reader boards” or similar devices for showing changing
text and/or graphic messages may be used and shall count towards the
permitted sign area. Reader board content shall be limited to the date,
time, temperature, and messages directly related to business or site
use. Advertisement of off-site uses is prohibited.

      (3)   Projecting or Shingle Signs

         Small projecting, shingle or suspended signs may be permitted
subject to the following:

         (A)   A maximum of one (1) such sign per building entrance is
permitted provided that it is perpendicular to the main face of the
building suspended from a canopy or projects not more than three (3)
feet from the building face.

         (B)   Projecting or shingle signs shall not exceed two (2)
square feet in area and shall have a minimum ground clearance of eight
(8) feet.

         (C)   All such signs shall be non-energized or non-electrical.

   (b)   Signs for Business Parks and Multi-tenant Industrial
Developments

      (1)   Sign Programs

         A sign program shall be required for all business parks and
multi-tenant industrial developments or any group of business uses with
shared signs facilities to insure that all signs are integrated and
compatible. Sign programs shall comply with all of the provisions of
Section 17.70.100 Sign Programs. All signs in such development shall
comply with the provisions of the approved sign program in addition to
the provisions of this Chapter.

      (2)   Wall Signs

         (A)   The maximum sign area per building or unit frontage shall
be one (1) square foot per linear foot of building or unit frontage.
Subject to the approval of a sign program, the property owner may
apportion the sign area to individual uses or overall building, or
certain identification, provided that the total cumulative sign area is
not exceeded.

         (B)   Any wall sign removed or obstructed due to construction
of an adjacent building cannot be relocated unless a new sign permit is
obtained and it complies with all the requirements of this Chapter.

         (C)   Awnings or canopy signs may be allowed, with their sign
area allocated against the total cumulative sign area for wall signs.

         (D)   Window signs may also be allowed to identify the business
or use. The maximum sign area shall not exceed 25% of the window area.

         (E)   Nameplate sign may not exceed one (1) square foot in
size.

      (3)   Free-Standing Monument Signs

         (A)   Free-Standing pole signs are not permitted; only monument
or Pylon style signs are permitted. Pylon signs shall have two
supporting towers on either side of the sign with a minimum dimension of
twelve inches by twelve inches (12" x 12").

         (B)   The maximum sign area allowed for free-standing signs
shall be two (2) square feet per ten (10) linear feet of street frontage
on which the sign is located.

         (C)   No single sign shall exceed one hundred (100) square
feet.

         (D)   No more than two free standing signs are permitted for
each street frontage. Spacing shall be subject to Table 70-2 below.

         (E)   Monument signs located near street intersections and
driveways shall be setback out of the Clear Area per Section 17.10.080 .

         (F)   “Reader boards” or similar devices for showing changing
text and/or graphic messages may be used and shall count towards the
permitted sign area. Reader board content shall be limited to the date,
time, temperature, and messages directly related to business or site
use. Advertisement of off-site uses is prohibited.

         (G)   Maximum height and separation of free-standing signs
shall comply with the following:

            (1)   Center identification signs shall meet the maximum
sign heights and minimum sign spacing specified below:

TABLE 70-2
FREE-STANDING SIGN HEIGHT AND SPACING STANDARDS

 

  -------------------------------------- ----------------- --------------------- -----------------
  Road Designation                       Net Lot Area      Maximum Sign Height   Minimum Spacing
  Highways or Major Streets/Boulevards   20 ac or more     15 feet               200 feet
  Highways or Major Streets/Boulevards   Less than 20 ac   8 feet                150 feet
  Collector                              Any lot area      8 feet                *
  -------------------------------------- ----------------- --------------------- -----------------

 

   *   Minimum sign spacing shall comply per net lot area as Major
Streets/ Boulevards

            (2)   Other free-standing signs which may be permitted for a
center shall not exceed a maximum height of eight (8) feet.

         (H)   The address or address range of the property shall be
incorporated on the sign visible from public right-of-way and no larger
than four (4) square feet in area.

         (I)   All free-standing signs in excess of eight (8) feet in
height shall reflect high quality, enhance community design and be
harmonious with the desert character through the following:

            (1)   Is compatible with the structures and uses located on
the site by incorporating elements of the architecture and/or natural
features of the site, without dominating the site.

         (J)   Fast Food Menu Boards

            Fast food restaurants with drive-through or walk-up
facilities within Industrial zoning districts shall comply with the
standards set forth in Section 17.70.070.b.3.K (Fast Food Menu Boards).

         (K)   Automated Service Facilities

            Signs for drive-up or walk-up service windows or machines
whether free-standing or incorporated into a building within Industrial
zoning districts shall comply with the standards set forth in Section
17.70.070.b.3.L (Automated Service Facilities).

      (3)   Projecting or Shingle Signs

         Small projecting, shingle or suspended signs may be permitted
subject to the following:

         (A)   A maximum of one (1) such sign per building entrance is
permitted provided that it is perpendicular to the main face of the
building suspended from a canopy or projects not more than three (3)
feet from the building face.

         (B)   Projecting or shingle signs shall not exceed two (2)
square feet in area and shall have a minimum ground clearance of eight
(8) feet.

         (C)   All such signs shall be non-energized or non-electrical.

   (c)   Service Stations

      Signs for service stations shall be as provided in subsection
17.70.070(c) (Service Stations).

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]

17.70.090 Highway/Freeway Identification Signs

   Commercial, Industrial, and other similar uses immediately adjacent
to Highway 395 and Palmdale Road (Highway 18) with on-site freeway
identification signs oriented to freeway traffic shall be permitted
subject to the following criteria:

   (a)   Approval of a Sign Permit or Sign Program shall be obtained
from the Planning Commission.

   (b)   Properties containing such signs shall be abutting a freeway or
freeway ramp.

   (c)   Signs may advertise the name(s) and logo(s) of uses on the same
parcel or in the same development as the sign. Advertisement of off-site
uses, or the use of off-site signs for advertising, is prohibited.

   (d)   Wall signs may be permitted for properties facing the freeway
subject to the same criteria allowed for frontages on a public
right-of-way;

   (e)   Free-Standing Signs. Free-Standing signs may be permitted
subject to the following criteria:

      (1)   Free-Standing pole signs are not permitted; only monument or
Pylon style signs may be considered. Pylon signs shall have two
supporting towers on either side of the sign with a minimum dimension of
twelve inches by twelve inches (12" x 12").

      (2)   Developments of up to ten (10) gross acres may erect one (1)
freeway-oriented sign. Developments of more than ten (>10) gross acres
may erect a maximum of two (2) signs.

      (3)   Signs may be up to one hundred feet (100') in height, or as
approved by the Planning Commission on a case-by-case basis.

      (4)   Maximum sign area for each sign face shall be four hundred
(400) square feet, or as approved by the Planning Commission. Each sign
shall have a maximum of two (2) faces.

      (5)   Highway/Freeway-oriented signs shall be spaced a minimum of
five hundred (500) feet apart.

      (6)   Highway/Freeway-oriented signs shall be space a minimum of
one hundred fifty (150) feet from a monument or pylon sign allowed in
Sections 17.70.070 and 17.70.080 above.

      (7)   Highway/Freeway-oriented signs may not rotate or be animated
in any way.

      (8)   “Reader boards” or similar devices for showing changing text
and/or graphic messages may be used, subject to approval of a
Conditional Use Permit by the Planning Commission.

      (9)   The address or address range of the property shall be
incorporated on the sign visible from public right-of-way and no larger
than one (1) square foot in area.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]

17.70.100 Sign Programs

   (a)   Sign Program Required

      A sign program shall be developed for any business or shopping
center or any group of business uses (three or more tenant spaces) with
shared sign facilities, master planned communities or specific plans to
ensure that all signs are in harmony with other on-site signs,
buildings, and surrounding developments. The intent of a sign program is
to integrate signs with building and landscape design into a unified
architectural statement. Sign programs are also intended to provide a
means of flexible application of sign regulations so as to encourage
maximum creativity in the design and display of signs.

   (b)   Application Requirements

      In addition to applicable application forms and fees, the
following information is required for review of a sign program:

      (1)   Site plan, to scale, indicating the location of all existing
and proposed signs with sign area dimensions, colors, materials, letter
style, proposed copy, if available, letter height, and method of
illumination.

      (2)   Building elevation(s), to scale, with sign location depicted
and dimensioned.

      (3)   Sign details indicating sign area, dimensions, colors,
materials, letter style, proposed copy, if available, letter height and
method of illumination.

      (4)   Landlord, Property Owner or Manager review authority and
maintenance responsibilities.

   (c)   Approval

      A Sign Permit (Signs) shall be required for a sign program. The
Director shall have authority to approve, conditionally approve, or deny
a sign program based on findings that the proposed sign program is in
compliance with the Design Guidelines of this Chapter.

   (d)   Design Guidelines

      The following guidelines are encouraged in developing a sign
program:

      (1)   A theme, styles, types, form, colors or placement of signs
that will unify and identify the center and integrate the signs with the
building and landscape design should be provided. Consideration should
be given to different types of tenants (e.g., major and minor) and
placement locations consistent with the architectural design.

      (2)   Sign color should be compatible with building color. In
general, limit the number of primary colors on any sign to no more than
two (2) with secondary colors used for accent or shadow detail.
Variations in color may be used as long as the remaining components of
the program remain consistent with the overall program.

      (3)   Use the same type of supports or method of mounting for
signs of the same type.

      (4)   Use the same type of construction material for same
components, such as monument bases, panels, cabinets, and supports.

      (5)   Use the same form of illumination for all signs of a given
type, or by using varied forms of illumination that have been determined
by the approving body to be compatible.

      (6)   Consideration should be provided for logos or trademarks.

   (e)   Revisions to Sign Programs

      (1)   Minor Revisions

         A revision to a sign program may be approved by the Director if
it is determined that the revision is minor in nature and that the
intent of the original approval, and any conditions attached thereto,
are not affected.

      (2)   Major Revisions

         For any revisions which are determined to be major by the
Director, a new application shall be filed in accordance with this
Chapter.

      The submittal materials required to accompany the application for
a revision to a sign program shall be the same as those required in
subsection 17.70.100(b) of this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]

17.70.110 Temporary Signs

   No temporary sign, or display of any kind shall be permitted, except
as specifically allowed by this ordinance. A temporary sign permit, on
forms provided by the Planning Division, must be obtained prior to
installation of a temporary sign.

   (a)   Temporary Banner Signs

      A temporary banner sign may be approved for a period of time, as
specified in this section, for commercial and industrial uses. The signs
may be used to promote the sale of new products, new tenant, new
management, new hours of operation, a new service, or to promote a
special sale. Any business or property owner desiring to use a temporary
advertising sign must file an application with a drawing or photograph
demonstrating the sign appearance with the Planning Division for review
and approval. The use of such signs is subject to the following
limitations:

      (1)   No more than one sign shall be permitted per activity or
business.

      (2)   The sign shall be a temporary sign designed either as a wall
sign, window sign or ground sign. The sign can be in the form of a
banner or pennant.

      (3)   The sign shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet and shall
be posted below the roof. In the case of a ground sign, the height of
the sign shall not exceed eight (8) feet.

      (4)   The sign shall be limited to a maximum display period of
thirty (30) days. Four (4) such periods shall be permitted for each
calendar year, not to exceed a total of 120 days per year. A maximum of
four (4) periods may be approved consecutively to allow a single sign to
be displayed for up to 120 days; otherwise, a minimum of 30 days shall
be required between display periods.

      (5)   The following temporary banner display criteria shall apply:

         (A)   All temporary banners shall be constructed of durable
material that will not deteriorate during the time period in which the
banner is displayed. Temporary banners which become frayed, torn, faded,
or showing similar signs of fatigue or failure shall be deemed to be in
violation of these provisions.

         (B)   All temporary banners shall be securely affixed to the
face of the facade of the building housing the business where the
business is located.

         (C)   Temporary banners shall not be affixed to fences, light
poles, trees, extended over parking and/or landscaped areas or other
similar techniques.

         (D)   No temporary banners shall be affixed on, within, or over
any public right-of-way.

   (b)   Grand Opening Signs

      A grand opening sign may be approved for a period of time in any
zoning district to advertise a new business or a change of business name
following a closure. Any business or property owner desiring to use a
grand opening sign must file an application together with a drawing or
photograph to the Planning Division for review and approval. An
application must be made either prior to opening or within the first
sixty (60) days of operation. The use of such signs is subject to the
following limitations:

      (1)   No more than one sign shall be permitted per grand opening.

      (2)   The sign shall be a temporary sign designed either as a
wall, window or ground sign. The sign can be in the form of a banner or
pennant.

      (3)   The sign shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet and shall
be posted below the roof. In the case of a ground sign, the height of
the sign shall not exceed eight (8) feet.

      (4)   The sign shall be limited to a display period not to exceed
thirty (30) days prior to opening and sixty (60) days after opening, for
a total display period of ninety (90) days.

      (5)   Grand Opening Sign display criteria shall comply with the
Temporary Sign criteria in Section 17.70.110 (a)(5) above.

   (c)   Special Event Signs

      Special event signs may be approved for a limited period of time
in any zoning district as a means of publicizing special events such as
carnivals, festivals, pumpkin patches, charitable events and Christmas
tree lots, in conjunction with a Temporary Use Permit. To apply for
approval of special event signs, any business or property owner must
submit an application with the city planning division which describes
the proposed sign by means of a sketch and the display dates for review
and approval. Such special event signs shall be limited to the following
provisions:

      (1)   No more than one special event sign shall be permitted per
activity and shall be either a wall, window or ground sign, and use of
flags, banners and pennants.

      (2)   All special event signs shall be a maximum of fifty (50)
square feet and shall be posted below the roof or shall be no higher
than eight (8) feet in the case of a ground sign.

      (3)   Special event signs shall be limited to forty-five (45) days
per calendar year.

      (4)   Special Event Sign display criteria shall comply with the
Temporary Sign criteria in Section 17.70.110 (a)(5) above.

   (d)    Permitted Signs - On-site Subdivision Signs

      The following signs shall be allowed in any zoning district
subject to the provisions listed:

      (1)   One temporary on-site subdivision sign not to exceed
sixty-four (64) square feet total for two sides or thirty- two (32)
square feet for one side, with a maximum height of fifteen (15) feet.

      (2)   One on-site subdivision sign may be permitted on each main
street frontage of the property being subdivided not to exceed two such
signs for all phases of any subdivision (interior streets of the
subdivision are not recognized as main street frontage).

      (3)   Such signs shall be for the identification of a subdivision,
price information and the developer’s name, address, and telephone
number.

      (4)   Such signs shall be removed within ten days from the date of
the final sale of the land and/or residences or within two years,
whichever comes first. Extensions of the two-year time limit can be
approved by the Director in cases of hardship.

      (5)   Signs shall be maintained in good repair at all times.

      (6)   If the City is forced to remove any signs, then the
developer shall be subject to the cost of removal.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]

17.70.115   Billboard Overlay Zone (B-O Zone)

      (a)   Purpose

         Billboards are recognized as a legitimate form of commercial
use in the city. However, the size, number, location and illumination of
billboards can have significant influence on the city’s visual
environment, and can, without adequate control, create or contribute to
visual blight conditions. The purpose of this section is to provide
reasonable billboard control, recognizing that community appearance is
an important factor in ensuring the general community welfare. This
section contains the entirety of the city’s zoning regulations with
respect to billboards in the Billboard Overlay Zone. Nothing herein
shall affect the right of any billboard or digital billboard in the
Billboard Overlay Zone in existence as of the date of this ordinance
pursuant to a development agreement to continue to legally exist and be
maintained pursuant to such agreement (including any amendments or
extensions thereof).

      (b)   Billboard Overlay Zone Established

         A new Billboard Overlay Zone is hereby established in the
following areas:

         (1)   Air Expressway B-O Zone

            On the east line of Highway 395, the length of the BOZ
begins at the intersection of the east line of Highway 395 and the north
line of Air Expressway and extends north along the east line of Highway
395 for 650 feet and has a depth of 200 feet from the east line of the
right of way edge of Highway 395 and said depth is measured along a line
that begins perpendicular to the centerline Highway 395 and extends out
from the east edge of the right of way 200 feet.

         (2)   Adelanto Stadium B-O Zone

            On the east line of Highway 395, the length of the BOZ
begins at the north/western edge of San Bernardino County Assessor
parcel number 3128-221-25-0000 where it abuts Highway 395 and then
extends south to the south/western corner of San Bernardino County
Assessor parcel number 3128-221-23-0000 were it abuts Highway 395 and
said depth is measured along a line that begins perpendicular to the
centerline of Highway 395 and extends out from the east edge of the
right of way 200 feet.

         (3)   Bellflower Street B-O Zone

            On the north line of Highway 18 (Palmdale Road), the length
of the BOZ begins at the intersection of the north line of Highway 18
and the east line of Bellflower Street and extends west along the north
line of Highway 18 for 300 feet and has a depth of 200 feet from the
north line of the right of way edge of Highway 18 and said depth is
measured along a line that begins perpendicular to the centerline of
Highway 18 and extends out from the edge of the right of way 200 feet.

         (4)   Holly Road B-O Zone

            On the east line of Highway 395, the length of the BOZ
begins at intersection of the north line of Holly Road and the east line
of Highway 395 and then extends north along the east line of the
right-of-way of 395 for 1,400 feet and said depth is measured along a
line that begins perpendicular to the centerline of Highway 395 and
extends out from the east edge of the right of way 200 feet.

      (c)   General Criteria

         Notwithstanding any other provision of the zoning code,
off-site outdoor advertising displays shall be allowed in all B-O Zones,
on any size parcel, whether public or private property, or in the
right-of-way, subject to the following criteria:

         (1)   City Agreement

            The advertising display shall be included as part of a
disposition and development agreement, owner participation agreement,
lease agreement or other agreement ("City Agreement") with the city and
the City Agreement contains: locations, site plans, elevations,
renderings, performance, onetime fee, ongoing revenue provisions,
relocation of off-site outdoor advertising signs, or other benefits that
allow the city to undertake projects, programs, or other activities that
improve the visual environment.

         (2)   Location Allowed

            The advertising display shall be placed in any commercial,
mixed use, business park, or industrial district that is within the
specified B-O Zone and within two hundred feet (200') from the edge of
the right of way of a freeway or highway whether on private or public
property, including public areas that have been approved by a City
Agreement to be placed in a sidewalk or curb or park strip.

         (3)   Conflict Between Provisions

            In the event of any conflict between any provision contained
in this section and any other provisions contained elsewhere in this
code, the provisions of this section shall govern.

         (4)    Spacing

            (A)   Spacing Between Two Digital Off-Site Signs

               No digital off-site advertising display shall be placed
within one thousand feet (1,000') from another digital off-site
advertising display on the same side of any portion of a freeway or
highway.

            (B)   Spacing Between Two Static Off-Site Signs.

               No static off-site advertising display shall be placed
within five hundred feet (500') from another static off-site advertising
display on the same side of any portion of a freeway or highway.

            (C)   Spacing Between One Static Off-Site Sign and One
Digital Off-Site Sign

               No static off-site advertising display shall be placed
within five hundred feet (500') from a digital off-site advertising
display on the same side of any portion of a freeway or highway.

         (5)   Sign Height

            Notwithstanding any other way to measure the sign height per
the zoning code, the advertising structure shall not exceed the height
of sixty feet (60') as measured from either the finished grade under the
sign or from the freeway or highway grade, whichever is higher.

         (6)    Sign Face Size

            No advertising structure shall have a facing that exceeds
six-hundred and seventy-two (672') square feet, but it shall allow
extensions of up to two (2') on the sides and five and one-half feet
(5.5') on the top, excluding base or apron supports and other structural
members. This subsection shall apply to each facing on an outdoor
advertising structure. The area shall be measured by the smallest
square, rectangle, triangle, circle, or combination thereof, which will
encompass the entire advertisement and is made based on the height and
the length but not the depth of the advertising copy.

         (7)   Illumination & Traffic Signs

            No advertising display may be placed that is so illuminated
that it interferes with the effectiveness of, or obscures any official
traffic sign, device, or signal; nor shall any advertising display
include or be illuminated by flashing, intermittent, or moving light;
nor shall any advertising display cause beams or rays of light to be
directed at the traveled ways if the light is of an intensity or
brilliance as to cause glare or to impair the vision of any driver, or
to interfere with any driver's operation of a motor vehicle. This
section does not prohibit properly maintained off-premise digital
billboards that comply with State and Federal law.

         (8)   No Setbacks

            Existing setback and yard requirements of the underlying
commercial or industrial zone shall not be applicable to placement of
any advertising structure. No minimum setback or yard requirements shall
be applied to placement of an advertising display.

         (9)   Compliance with Federal, State and Local Laws

            No advertising display shall be placed or maintained in
violation of the California Outdoor Advertising Act, Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 5200) of Division 3 of the California Business
and Professions Code, or any other applicable state, federal, or local
law. Unless otherwise specified in this section, the general sign
requirements set forth in the Business and Professions Code shall apply
to plans and materials for and to design, construction, street address
numbers, identification and maintenance of outdoor advertising displays
approved under this section.

         (10)   Permits Required

            No person shall place an off-site outdoor advertising
structure without first having secured a building permit and a State
(Caltrans) permit.

            (A)   Building Permit

               A separate building permit shall be required for each
advertising structure whether or not the advertising structure is
proposed alone or as one of any number of advertising structures
proposed to be placed on the same parcel, contiguous parcels, or any set
of related or unrelated parcels that are the subject of a single
development proposal.

            (B)   Application

               No permit of any kind shall be issued for an advertising
display without prior approval of the City Council.

            (C)   Application Filing

               An application for approval of an off-site advertising
structure shall be filed with the City Council in accordance with the
following provisions:

                  1.   Any person who has an ownership, license or
leasehold interest in the land parcel may file an application for
approval of a building permit for an off-site advertising structure. If
submitted by the holder of a license or leasehold interest, the
application must include a statement of consent to proceed with the
proposed development executed by the holder of an ownership interest and
acknowledged before a notary public for the state of California.

                  2.   The application may request review of one or
multiple advertising structures.

                  3.   The application shall be accompanied by photos of
all existing signage and accurate architectural renderings and
elevations of proposed advertising structures, as well as a scaled plot
plan and elevations showing the locations of all existing structures and
improvements on the property, and the proposed advertising structure(s),
within one-hundred (100') feet of the proposed advertising structure.

                  4.   At the time of filing the application for
permits, the applicant shall pay a filing fee in accordance with a City
Council approved resolution. This fee shall be in addition to any other
required fees for permits relative to development of the property and
shall be for the purpose of defraying the costs associated with city
review and action on the application.

      (d)   City Council Can Refer to Planning Commission.

         The City Council may act on the application directly or refer
the application to the planning commission for review, recommendations
or determination.

      (e)   Determinations.

         Before approving any off-site advertising display permit
application, the City Council, or the Planning Commission upon City
Council referral, shall make the following determinations concerning the
parcel(s) for which permits are sought:

            (1)   All existing and proposed advertising displays are
appropriately scaled to the architectural character of all buildings and
structures on the parcels that are within one-hundred (100') feet of the
proposed advertising structure;

            (2)   All existing and proposed advertising displays result
in a complementary enhancement to the architecture on the parcel;

            (3)   All existing and proposed advertising displays result
in a visually uncluttered appearance;

            (4)   All existing and proposed advertising displays enhance
commercial corridors and properties and do not obscure street views of
public art, council designated historical buildings, or City Council
designated projects;

            (5)   All existing and proposed advertising displays
minimize potential traffic hazards;

            (6)   All existing and proposed advertising displays are
compliant with all applicable provisions of this zoning code, and
federal, state and local law relevant thereto.

      (f)   Additional Conditions of Approval.

         The City Council, or the Planning Commission upon City Council
referral, may impose additional conditions of approval as are reasonably
necessary to ensure the development is consistent with the general plan,
compatible with surrounding land use, meets the provisions and intent of
this zoning code, minimizes potential traffic hazards, and otherwise
protects the public health, safety and welfare. In making such
determinations, findings shall be made that the proposed use is in
general accord with the principles and standards set forth in section
25-130-5 of this chapter.

      (g)   Express Conditions & Reservations.

         Without exception, every outdoor advertising display approved
under this section shall be subject to the following express conditions
and reservations:

            (1)   If an advertising display is illuminated, any
illumination shall not impair the vision of travelers on any adjacent
highway, including the freeway or highway. Digital billboards shall not
operate at brightness levels, of more than 0.3 foot candles above
ambient light, as measured using a foot candle meter at a pre-set
distance. Each digital billboard must have a light sensing device that
will adjust the brightness as ambient light conditions change. Pre-set
distances to measure the foot candles impact vary with the expected
viewing distances of each size sign. Measurement distance criteria:

               Nominal      Distance to
               Face Size      be measured from:

               12'x25'      150'

               10'6"x36'      200'

               14'x48'      250'

               20'x 60' or 25'x 48'   350'

            (2)   Each digital billboard shall be designed to freeze the
display in one static position, display a full black screen, or turn
off, in the event of a malfunction.

            (3)   When an advertising display is defaced with graffiti,
the display owner shall remove the graffiti within seventy-two (72)
hours after telephonic notice by city.

            (4)   No billboard shall display any statement or words of
an 'obscene, indecent, or immoral character', as that phrase is used in
Business and Professions Code Section 5402 and judicial decisions
interpreting the same.

      (h)   Final Decision.

         The decision of the City Council shall be final and conclusive.
If the City Council refers the application to the planning commission
for determination, the decision of the planning commission shall be
final, subject to applicant's right to appeal any decision of the
planning commission, to the City Council.

      (i)   Variance.

         Any proposed variance to this subsection shall be deemed a
major variance and may be approved only if the City Council determines
that each of the required findings set forth in this zoning code are
met.

      (j)   Nonconforming.

         All existing off-site outdoor advertising displays that have
previously obtained required permits, and which remain in compliance
with the terms and conditions of those permits but that are not in
conformance with the provisions of this section shall become
nonconforming uses. The owner of a nonconforming outdoor advertising
display may perform normal repairs and customary maintenance to such
existing nonconforming advertising displays, including, but not limited
to, changing the advertising message and adding an extension to the
outside dimension of a facing.

      (k)   Relocations.

         All off-site outdoor advertising displays approved under this
section and existing nonconforming advertising displays may be relocated
by mutual agreement between the display owner and the City Council on
whatever terms are agreeable to both parties under the authority of
California Business and Professions Code Section 5412.

         (1)   "Relocation" as used in this section, includes removal of
an advertising structure and construction of a new advertising structure
to substitute for the advertising structure removed.

         (2)   The purpose of this subsection is to allow the city to
continue to develop in a planned manner without expenditure of public
funds while allowing the continued maintenance of private investment and
a medium of public communication established in outdoor advertising.

[Ord. No. 611, §3, 4/22/20.]

17.70.120 Definitions

A-frame Sign. A sign with two (2) sign faces which are not parallel,
with a side profile in the shape of an “A”.

Abandoned Sign. A sign pertaining to, or located on, a property,
building suite or premises which is vacant and unoccupied for a period
of ninety (90) days, or a sign which is damaged, in disrepair, or
vandalized and not repaired within ninety (90) days of the date of the
damaging event.

Advertising Display. Shall refer to advertising structures and to signs
placed for off-site outdoor advertising purposes on advertising
structures.

Advertising Structure. Shall mean a structure of any kind or character
erected, used, or maintained for off-site outdoor advertising purposes,
upon which any poster, bill, printing, painting, digital, or other
advertisement of any kind whatsoever may be placed.

Architectural Sign. A sign incorporated into architectural elements such
as an archway, fountain, or sculptured garden which is integrated with,
but subordinate to, the overall architectural element.

Advertising Devices. A commercial temporary device other than signs,
used for grand openings and special promotions. Advertising devices
could consist of, but not be limited to, balloons, flags, search lights,
clowns, etc.

Area of Sign. “Sign area” means the entire area within the outside
border of the sign. The area of a sign having no continuous border or
lacking a border shall mean the entire area within a single continuous
perimeter formed by no more than eight straight lines enclosing the
extreme limits of writing, representations, emblem, or any fixture or
similar character, integral part of the display or used as a border,
excluding the necessary supports or uprights on which such sign is
placed. Where a sign has two (2) or more faces, the area of all faces
shall be included in determining the area of the sign, except that where
two (2) such faces are placed back-to-back and are at no point more than
three feet (3') from one another, the area of the sign shall be taken as
the area of one face if the two faces are of equal area, or as the area
of the larger face if the two faces are of unequal area.

Awning/Canopy Sign. Signs which are placed on or integrated into fabric
awnings, or other material canopies, which are mounted on the exterior
of a building which extend from the wall of a building to provide
shielding of windows and entrances from inclement weather and the sun.

Balloon. Any mobile, portable, temporary structure that is inflated with
gaseous material and is used for the purpose of attracting attention
whether or not it contains a written or graphic message.

Banner, Flag, Pennant or Streamers. Any cloth, bunting, plastic, paper,
or similar material, used for advertising purposes, attached to any
structure, staff, pole, line, framing, vehicle, but not including
official flags of the United States, the State of California, and other
states of the nation, counties, municipalities, and official flags of
foreign nations.

Berm. A mound or embankment of earth.

Billboard Sign. Shall mean a sign, static or digital, excluding a
supergraphic sign, which advertises goods, products, services or
facilities not sold, produced, manufactured or furnished on the premises
on which the sign is located (also known as outdoor advertising,
off-premise sign or off-site sign).

   A.   Digital Billboard. Shall mean a changeable off-premise message
sign (digital sign) consisting of a matrix of lamps or diodes or other
electronic light source which are computer controlled (excluding
time/temperature signs). A Digital Billboard shall not change more often
than once every four (4) seconds.

   B.   Static Billboard. Shall mean a conventional off-premise sign
that is painted or have a vinyl that is stretched over the face of the
sign or has another means of displaying the advertising that is not
using a digital billboard display.

Building Facade. The exterior wall of a building exposed to public view
or that wall viewed by persons not within the building.

Building Wall. The individual sides of a building.

Business Entrance Identification. A sign adjacent to, or on the entrance
door of a business which names, gives the address and other appropriate
information as store hours and telephone numbers.

Cabinet. A three dimensional structure which includes a frame, borders,
and sign face panel and may include internal lighting upon which the
sign letters and logos are placed or etched, and is architecturally
integrated with the building.

Center. A center contains businesses and buildings designed as an
integrated and interrelated development sharing such elements as
architecture, access, and parking. Such design is independent of the
number of structures, lots, or parcels making up the center.

Channel Letter Sign. Three dimensional individually cut letters or
figures, illuminated or unilluminated, affixed to a building or sign
structure.

Channel Letter Sign, Reverse. A type of sign utilizing opaque channel
lettering with an open back containing a light source which throws light
onto the sign field (background) against which the channel letters are
silhouetted.

Directional Sign. Signs limited to directional messages, principally to
direct pedestrian or vehicular traffic, such as “one way”, “entrance”,
or “exit.” These signs provide information which will assist the
operators of vehicles and the flow of traffic. Such signs may use names,
logos, or symbols of buildings, businesses, activities, uses or places
as a means of providing directions.

Directory Sign. A sign which provides a listing of the names of
businesses, tenants, activities, addresses, locations, uses, or places
within a building, complex of buildings, or multi-use project.

Double-Faced Sign. A single sign structure designed with the intent of
providing copy on both sides in which the sides are not separated by
more than three (3) feet.

Eave. That part of a roof that overhangs the side walls or the lowest
part of the roof extending over an arcade.

Eaveline. The eaveline is the bottom of the eave.

Entryway Sign. A sign which is placed on the perimeter of a recorded
subdivision, townhouse project, commercial development, master planned
community, hotel, motel, or guest ranch at a major street or driveway
entrance to identify the name of the interior project. Such signs may
flank both sides of the entrance and may include monument or landscape
wall sign types.

Fascia Sign. A sign placed on a parapet-type wall used as part of the
face of a flat roofed building and projecting not more than one (1) foot
from the building face immediately adjacent thereto.

Flag. A fabric sheet or square, rectangular or triangular shape which is
mounted on a pole, cable, or rope at one end.

Flag, Decorative. A flag which contains no text or graphics. Also known
as pennants.

Flashing Sign. A sign that contains an intermittent or sequential
flashing light source.

Free-Standing Sign. A sign that is not attached to any building.

Flashing, Intermittent or Moving Light. Shall mean a light or message
that changes more often than once every four (4) seconds. The
illumination or the appearance of illumination resulting in a change of
message or advertising copy is not the use of flashing, intermittent, or
moving light, unless it changes more often than once every four (4)
seconds.

Freeway. A major highway which carries high speed traffic without
interruption by traffic signals.

Frontage. Linear measurement of a lot or building facade or portion of
the facade which encloses an individual tenant or business which fronts
on either a street, freeway, parking lot, or pedestrian mall, not
including loading or service areas, and is used as the basis for
determining the maximum sign area and number of signs allowed for
individual activities. For wall signs, building frontage may also
include linear footage of the building facing an adjacent commercial or
industrial designated use, which is not adjacent to another building.

Height, Sign. The distance from ground level to the highest point of the
structure, providing, however that where the structure is on a berm,
mound or slope, the slope shall not exceed a four to one (4:1)
horizontal to vertical ratio. If the slope exceeds this ratio, then
height shall be measured from the toe (or bottom) of the slope, or a
point where the slope does not exceed four to one (4:1).

Highway. A major highway which carries high speed traffic which may be
continuous without interruption by traffic signals or may have frequent
interruption by traffic signals. Within the City of Adelanto, Highway
395 and Palmdale Road (Highway 18) are classified as Highways.

Identification Sign. A sign on a building wall or landscape wall, a
ground sign or temporary sign used to present the name of a major
residential project or master planned community information center.

Illegal Sign. Any sign erected without first obtaining a sign permit, or
a sign for which the permit has expired or been revoked.

Illuminated Sign. A sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outline backlit or internally illuminated by electric lights or
luminous tubes as a part of the sign proper.

Indirect Lighting. Illumination so arranged that the light is reflected
from the sign to the eyes of the viewer. Indirect lighting is typically
external illumination located away from the sign, which lights the sign,
but which is itself not visible to persons viewing the sign from any
street, sidewalk, or adjacent property.

Individual Letters. A cut-out or etched letter or logo which is
individually placed on a landscape, screen wall, building wall, or
ground sign.

Institutional Sign. A sign identifying the premises of a church, school,
hospital, rest home, or similar institutional facility.

Internal Lighting. A source of illumination entirely within the sign
which makes the contents of the sign visible at night by means of the
light being transmitted through a translucent material but wherein the
source of illumination is not visible.

Internal Backlighting. A source of illumination entirely within the
individual letter, cabinet, or structure which makes the sign visible at
night by means of lighting the background upon which the individual
letter is mounted. The letters are opaque, and thus are silhouetted
against the background. The source of illumination is not visible.

Kiosk Sign. An off-premises sign used for directing people to the sales
office or models of a residential subdivision project.

Logo. A graphic symbol representing an activity, use, or business.
Permitted logos shall be registered trademarks or symbols commonly used
by the applicant, and may include graphic designs. The applicant shall
provide stationery or other supporting documents illustrating use of
logo.

Main Traveled Way. Shall mean in the case of a freeway or highway, the
traveled way of each of the separate roadways for traffic in opposite
directions is the main traveled way.

Menu Board. An outdoor sign listing food and beverage items available at
restaurants with drive-through windows for take-out service.

Monument Sign. A free-standing cabinet or panel sign mounted on, or
within, a base (above grade) which is detached from any building.

Multiple Tenant Commercial Building. A commercial development in which
there exists two or more tenant spaces, and which is designed to provide
a single area in which the public can obtain a variety of products and
services. Distinguishing characteristics of a multiple tenant commercial
building may, but need not, include common ownership of the real
property upon which the center is located, common-wall construction and
multiple occupant commercial use of a single structure.

Name Plate. A small sign which identifies a resident’s or home’s name
and address or the name of a farm, ranch, or commercial stable. Such
sign may be shingle, building wall, or archway-mounted.

Off-Site Subdivision Directional Sign. A sign located off the subject
property providing direction to a residential land development project.

On-Site Subdivision and Model Home Directional Sign. A sign providing
direction to a residential land development project located within the
boundaries of the subdivision.

Panel. A two dimensional visual background behind the sign letters and
logos which is visually separated from the mounting upon which the sign
letters and logos are placed by the presence of a border, different
colors, different materials, or other technique of visual framing around
the letters or logo.

Pennant. See “Flag, Decorative.”

Permanent Sign. Any sign which is intended to be and is so constructed
as to be a lasting and enduring condition remaining unchanged in
character, condition (except normal wear) and position, and in a
permanent manner affixed to the ground, wall, or building, provided the
sign is listed as a permanent sign in the Ordinance.

Pole Signs. Pole signs are signs that are supported by a pole or post
and otherwise separated from the ground by air. Pole signs are almost
always separated from buildings and other structures.

Portable Sign. A sign that is not permanently affixed to a structure or
the ground.

Projecting Sign. A wall sign suspended from, or supported by, a building
or structure and projecting outward.

Raceway. A metal conduit or channel containing the electrical power
lines for illuminated signs.

Reader Board Sign. A on-premise sign designed to allow the changing of
copy through manual, mechanical, or electrical means, including time and
temperature. The changeable copy of a “Reader Board Sign” shall not
change at a frequency in excess of one alteration per four (4) seconds,
shall not use scrolling or animated characterization nor be located
within the direct line-of-sight of any residential used or zoned
property within 150 feet of said sign.

Reverse Channel Lettering. See “Channel Letter Sign, Reverse.”

Roof Sign. A sign that extends above the roof line.

Shingle Sign (Canopy Sign). A sign suspended from a roof overhang of a
covered porch or walkway which identifies the tenant of the adjoining
space (see “Under Canopy Sign”).

Sign. Any words, letters, numerals, emblems, designs, or other marks
shown on any flag, card, cloth, paper, metal, painted surface, glass,
wood, plaster, stone or other device of any kind or character by which
anything is made known and used to attract attention. “Sign” does not
include:

   A.   Official notices issued by any court or public body or officer;

   B.   Notices posted by any public officer in performance of a public
duty or by any person in giving any legal notice;

   C.   Directional, warning or information signs or structures required
by or authorized by law or federal or state authority.

Sign Copy. Letters or figures that make up the sign’s message.

Sign Program. A specific set of design standards established for the
purpose of unifying a variety of signs associated with a multi-tenant or
multi-use project (three or more tenant spaces), building or complex of
buildings. The design standards shall include, but are not limited to,
letter and logo sizes, letter style, colors, texture, lighting methods,
sign type (individual letters, cabinet, etc.) and architectural
features. The purpose of the program is to provide design compatibility
for all signs and to integrate the signs with the architectural features
of the project or building(s) being signed. Upon approval of the master
sign program by the Director, all signage contained within the limits of
the project, regardless of ownership, shall comply with the design
standards established by the program.

Sign Structure. Any structure which supports any sign.

Snipe Sign. Temporary signs made of any material, including paper,
cardboard, wood and metal which is fastened to fences, trees, utility
poles, or other nonsign structures.

Special Event Sign/Banner. A temporary sign or banner that is intended
to inform the public of a unique happening, action, purpose, or
occasion, such as a grand opening or community event (see Banner).

Special Service Sign. Small signs associated with gasoline or service
stations such as “full service”, “water and air”, “cashier”, “smog
certificates”, etc.

Temporary Sign. A sign usually constructed of cloth or fabric,
cardboard, wallboard, wood or other light material intended to be
displayed for a short period of time as set forth in this Chapter.

Time/Temperature Sign. Shall mean a sign which communicates time and
temperature information in digital or analog fashion, frequently in
connection with business logo or identification copy.

Traffic Directional Sign. Signs used at driveways to improve public
safety and to enhance public access to the site from public streets.
These signs provide information which will assist the operators of
vehicles and the flow of traffic. Such signs may use names, logos, or
symbols of buildings, businesses, activities, uses or places as a means
of providing directions.

Two Hundred Feet from the Edge of the Right Of Way. Shall mean two
hundred feet (200') measured from the edge of the right of way
horizontally along a line perpendicular to the centerline of the
highway.

Under Canopy Sign. Any sign attached to the underside of a projecting
canopy protruding over a private or public sidewalk or right-of-way.

Vehicle Sign. A sign which is attached to or painted on a vehicle which
is parked on or adjacent to any property, the principal purpose of which
is to attract attention to a product sold or business located on such
property.

Wall Sign. A sign that is affixed to the wall or fascia of a building.

Window Sign. Any sign posted, painted, placed, or affixed in or on any
window exposed to public view. Any interior sign which faces any window
exposed to public view and is located within three (3) feet of the
window.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14;
Ord. No. 611, 4/22/20.]

CHAPTER 17.75
TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES

   17.75.010   General Provisions

   17.75.020   Halloween Pumpkin/Christmas Tree Sales Facilities

   17.75.030   Residential Tract Sales and Rental Office

   17.75.040   Temporary Construction Office

   17.75.050   Special Outdoor Events

   17.75.060   Temporary Cannabis Facilities

17.75.010 General Provisions

   (a)   The uses described in this Chapter shall be permitted in
designated zoning districts, as outlined in Appendix A: Regulation of
Uses by Zoning District, and subject to the issuance of a Temporary Use
Permit. Chapter 17.155 of this Zoning Code contains provisions for the
issuing of Temporary Use Permits.

   (b)   All temporary uses are subject to time limits.

   (c)   All temporary uses shall be subject to the following, where
applicable:

      (1)   The valid Temporary Use Permit shall be prominently
displayed in a manner to be visible at all times from the exterior of
the permitted structure or vehicle associated with the use.

      (2)   Installation of a permitted temporary structure or vehicle
shall comply with all requirements and regulations of the Municipal
Code, Health Department, and applicable state and federal agencies.

   (d)   All temporary uses shall be subject to inspection and approval
by the Building Official prior to issuance of a Temporary Use Permit.

   (e)   A Plot Plan shall be submitted to the City for any temporary
use. This Plot Plan shall indicate at least the following:

      (1)   The boundaries of the site on which the temporary use is
proposed.

      (2)   Proposed access, including the type and location of any
proposed traffic control devices or persons.

      (3)   The location of all proposed uses, including all fences,
structures, and vehicles to be used as part of the operation of the
temporary use.

      (4)   The location and size of any proposed utility service.

      (5)   The method of providing toilet facilities, including the
location and type of any portable toilets.

   (f)   All temporary uses shall be required to post a bond in an
amount sufficient to restore the site of the temporary use to its
pre-existing condition and to allow compliance with all applicable
Codes.

   (g)   This Chapter shall not apply to City sponsored events.

17.75.020 Halloween Pumpkin/Christmas Tree Sales Facilities

Unless prohibited by the specific zoning district regulations, temporary
Halloween Pumpkin/Christmas tree sales facilities shall be permitted in
any commercial, industrial, or airport district, or on any church or
school site which abuts a collector or higher rated roadway, as
designated in the General Plan. All temporary Halloween
Pumpkin/Christmas tree sales shall be subject to the to the following
requirements:

   (a)   Date of Opening

      No Halloween pumpkin sales facility shall be open for business
during any calendar year prior to October 4.

      No Christmas tree sales facility shall be open for business during
any calendar year prior to Thanksgiving.

   (b)   Merchandise to Be Sold

      A permitted Halloween pumpkin sales facility may not sell items
not directly associated with pumpkins and Halloween decorations.

      A permitted Christmas tree sales facility shall not engage in the
sale of any merchandise not directly associated with Christmas trees and
Christmas decorations.

   (c)   Electrical Permit

      The applicant shall secure an electrical permit from the City if
the facility is to be energized.

   (d)   Removal of Facility

      By November 14, each Halloween pumpkin sales site shall be removed
and the premises cleared of all debris and restored to at least as good
a condition as existed prior to the establishment of the facility. If
the Halloween pumpkin facility will be used in the same calendar year
for Christmas tree sales, the site shall be cleaned and maintained in an
orderly condition for the period between the closing of Halloween sales
and the opening of Christmas tree sales.

      Within fourteen (14) days after Christmas, the facility shall be
removed and the premises cleared of all debris and restored to at least
as good a condition as existed prior to the establishment of the
facility.

   (e)   Fire Prevention Standards

      Each sales facility shall comply with fire prevention standards as
approved and enforced by the Fire Chief.

17.75.030 Residential Tract Sales and Rental Office

Temporary real estate offices, to be used solely for the first sale of
homes or the first rental of apartments in projects of twenty (20) or
more units within the same development, may be established within the
area of an approved Tentative Tract subject to the provisions of this
Section.

   (a)   Permitted Structures and Facilities

      (1)   Model homes in compliance with the Zoning Code applicable to
the properties that are being sold.

      (2)   Temporary sales office buildings.

      (3)   Garages, attached and detached, in compliance with the
Zoning Code applicable to the properties that are being sold.

      (4)   Accessory buildings and structures in compliance with the
Zoning Code applicable to the properties that are being sold.

      (5)   Temporary and permanent fencing, walks, and structural
amenities.

      (6)   Temporary vehicle parking and maneuvering areas to provide
off-street parking as necessary for employees and guests.

      (7)   Temporary vehicle accessways.

      (8)   Streets and driveways which will be part a permanent of the
residential project.

      (9)   Recreational facilities which will be a permanent part of
the residential project.

      (10)   Temporary playgrounds, parks, and other recreational
amenities, provided they are clearly identified as “Temporary Facilities
for Display Only.”

   (b)   Any approving action shall include those conditions and
requirements deemed to be necessary or advisable to protect the public
safety and the general welfare and adequate guarantees that the
structures and facilities will be removed or made consistent with
applicable zoning regulations within ninety (90) days after the
expiration of the permit. In addition to those findings required for the
approval of an application, any approving action for a temporary real
estate office shall also include the following findings:

      (1)   That the access, parking, and circulation facilities will
not result in excess traffic congestion or traffic safety hazards.

      (2)   That the operation of the real estate office and associated
activities will not conflict with adjacent and nearby residential uses.

   (c)   Time Limitation

      A Temporary Use Permit application for a temporary real estate
office may be approved for a maximum time period of two (2) years from
the date of approval. At the end of the two (2) year period, the use
must either be terminated or the permit re-applied for.

17.75.040 Temporary Construction Office

A temporary construction office, used during the construction of a main
building or buildings on the same site, shall be permitted subject to
the following conditions. A temporary construction office may not be
used as a sales office.

   (a)   The temporary office may consist of a manufactured home,
commercial coach, self-contained recreational vehicle, mobile office, or
modular structure, provided the structure or vehicle is erected or
installed in accordance with Uniform Building Code requirements for
temporary construction offices.

   (b)   A temporary construction office shall be removed or shall be
converted to a permitted use prior to the issuance of a certificate of
use and occupancy for the main building or buildings. If construction is
phased over a length of time, the permit may provide that certificates
of use and occupancy may be issued for completed buildings.

   (c)   Not later than the granting of Certificates of Occupancy for
the last buildings in a Tract or phase, the temporary construction
offices shall be removed (or converted into permanent structures, where
permitted).

   (d)   If no construction activity is anticipated to occur for a
period of forty-five (45) days or more, the temporary office shall be
removed and the site maintained in a clean and orderly condition. This
provision specifically applies to construction offices associated with
the development of homes within custom lot sales subdivisions.

17.75.050 Special Outdoor Events

The regulations of this Section pertain to the temporary use of property
for special outdoor events including, but not limited to, pageants,
fairs, carnivals, and large athletic, religious, or entertainment
events.

A Special Event is defined as any event which will attract 200 or more
persons per day. A Major Special Event is defined as any event which
will attract 5,000 or more persons per day.

Such activities may be permitted as outlined in Appendix A: Regulation
of Uses by Zoning District, subject to the following:

   (a)   Activities conducted on property owned by or leased to the City
and public road rights-of-way may require an encroachment permit issued
by the City of Adelanto.

   (b)   The temporary use may be permitted for a period not to exceed
ten (10) consecutive days. Events recurring more than four (4) times in
a calendar year are not considered temporary.

   (c)   The Planning Director may require a cash bond or other
guarantee for removal of the temporary use, cleanup and restoration of
the activity site within seven (7) days of the activity conclusion.

   (d)   Applications for permits/certificates required by subsections
(a) and (b) above shall be referred by the Planning Director to other
affected agencies as may be appropriate for review and comment.

   (e)    Related issues including but not limited to police/security,
food and water supply, use of tents and canopies, sanitation facilities,
medical services, noise, signage, fire protection, and traffic control
shall be satisfactorily addressed as may be required by the Planning
Director, Director of Public Works, Police Department, Fire Department,
or Health Officer in their administration of other City codes. Such
other Codes may require the applicant to obtain permits such as
building, electrical, health, and tent permits.

   (f)   The Planning Director or any other responsible City Department
head may impose any other additional conditions on the temporary use to
ensure that the use is operated in a manner compatible with surrounding
uses.

17.75.060 Temporary Cannabis Facilities

      A temporary facility used to cultivate, manufacture or test
cannabis, shall be permitted subject to the following conditions. A
temporary cannabis facility may not be used as a dispensary.

      (a)   The temporary cannabis facility may consist of a modular
structure provided the structure is erected or installed according to
the Uniform Housing Code requirements for temporary construction units,
subject to reasonable conditions by staff.

      (b)   A temporary cannabis facility shall be removed or shall be
converted to a permitted use prior to the issuance of a certificate of
use and occupancy for the main building or buildings. If construction is
phased over a length of time, the permit may provide that certificates
of use and occupancy may be issued for completed buildings.

      (c)   Not later than the granting of certificates of occupancy for
the last buildings in a tract or phase, the temporary construction
offices shall be removed (or converted into permanent structures, where
permitted).

      (d)   If no construction activity is anticipated to occur for a
period of forty-five (45) days or more, the temporary cannabis facility
shall be removed and the site maintained in a clean and orderly
condition.

[Ord. No. 578, 10/11/17.]

CHAPTER 17.80
SPECIAL USE STANDARDS

   17.80.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.80.020   Antennas and Cellular Telephone Towers

   17.80.030   Churches, Temples, Religious Institutions, Non-profits
and Other Similar Institutions

   17.80.040   Restrictions on Sales of Tobacco Products

   17.80.050   (Reserved)

   17.80.060   Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS)

   17.80.070   Solar Energy Conversion Systems (SECS)

   17.80.071   Solar Energy Conversion Systems (SECS) Overlay Zone

   17.80.080   Cannabis Cultivation

   17.80.081   Cannabis Cultivation Water Requirements

   17.80.090   Cannabis Manufacturing

   17.80.100   Cannabis Distribution

   17.80.101   Cannabis Transportation

   17.80.110   Cannabis Testing

   17.80.120   Cannabis Retail

17.80.010 Intent and Purpose

   Certain uses, although permitted in specific zoning districts,
require additional development standards beyond those specified for the
applicable zone. Additional standards are required to ensure that such
uses are operated in a manner that does not adversely impact surrounding
uses. The purpose of this Chapter is to provide additional development
standards and conditions for certain uses to ensure their compatibility
with surrounding uses.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit K, 5/22/13; Ord
No. 528, Exhibit Q, 9/10/14.]

17.80.020 Antennas and Cellular Telephone Towers

   (a)   Exempt Antennas

      Common skeletal-type radio and television antenna in standard
configurations used to receive UHF, VHF, AM, and FM signals of off-air
broadcasts from radio and television stations are exempt from the
requirements of this Section.

      Solid dish-type antennas with a diameter of less than two feet
(2') which are designed to receive broadcast signals directly from
orbiting satellites are also exempt from the following requirements,
with the exception that this type of antenna may not be placed in a
front yard area or in any other location visible from the street at the
front of the home or building which the antenna serves.

   (b)   Location of Antennas in Residential Districts

      Antennas and satellite dishes (hereafter referred to as
“antennas”) located in the residential zones of the City shall conform
to the following standards:

      (1)   All antennas shall be required to maintain their supporting
structures at least five feet (5') from any property line and ten feet
(10') from any other structure.

      (2)   All ground-mounted antennas shall be screened by walls,
fences, or landscaping at least six feet (6') in height obscuring
visibility of the antenna from adjacent properties at the same
elevation. Landscaping shall be of a type and variety and installed at
sufficient size to be capable of growing within one year to a landscape
screen which obscures the visibility of the antenna.

      (3)   All antennas and their supporting structures shall be
located in the rear yard.

      (4)   No antenna shall be higher than thirty-five feet (35') above
grade level, except dish-type satellite receiving antennas, which shall
not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height. Antennas exceeding thirty-five
feet (35') may be approved provided the antenna is retractable to below
the thirty-five foot (35') height limit, and the applicant executes a
use agreement providing that the antenna will only be extended during
actual use of said antenna.

      (5)   A maximum of two (2) antennas, including exempt antennas,
shall be allowed per lot.

      (6)   All roof-mounted antennas, with the exception of exempt
antennas, are prohibited.

   (c)   Location of Antennas in Non-Residential Districts

      Antennas located in non-residential zoning districts shall conform
to the following standards:

      (1)   All ground-mounted antennas shall be required to maintain
their supporting structures at least five feet (5') from any property
line and ten feet (10') from any other structure.

      (2)   All ground-mounted antennas shall be screened by walls,
fences, or landscaping at least six feet (6') in height obscuring
visibility of the antenna from adjacent properties at the same
elevation. Landscaping shall be of a type and variety capable of growing
within one year to a landscape screen which obscures the visibility of
the antenna.

      (3)   All antennas and their supporting structures shall be
located in the rear yard or any side yard, except a street side yard.

      (4)   No antenna or its supporting structure shall be located in
the area between the front property line and the main structure or
building.

      (5)   No antenna shall be higher than the maximum height permitted
in the zone, measured from grade level, except satellite antennas, which
shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height.

      (6)   A maximum of two (2) antennas, including exempt antennas,
shall be allowed per lot.

      (7)   No antenna shall be roof-mounted except on a flat portion of
the roof structure with parapets, and/or architecturally matching
screening plan.

   (d)   Location of Antennas in Public Utility, Open Space and
Greenbelt Corridor Districts

      (1)   All ground-mounted antennas shall be required to maintain
their supporting structures at least five feet (5') from any property
line and ten feet (10') from any other structure.

      (2)   All ground-mounted antennas shall be screened by walls,
fences or landscaping at least six feet (6') in height obscuring
visibility of the antenna. Landscaping shall be of a type and variety
capable of growing within one year to a landscape screen which obscures
the visibility of the antenna.

      (3)   All antennas and their supporting structures shall be
located in the rear yard or any side yard, except a street side yard.

      (4)   No antenna or its supporting structure shall be located in
the area between the front property line and the main structure or
building.

      (5)   No antenna shall be higher than the maximum height permitted
in the zone measures from grade level, except satellite antennas which
shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height.

      (6)   A maximum of two (2) antennas, including exempt antennas,
shall be allowed per lot.

      (7)   No antenna shall be roof-mounted except on a flat portion of
the roof structure with parapets, and/or architecturally matching
screening plan.

   (e)   Wireless Communication Facilities

      The following regulations shall govern the placement of wireless
communication facilities, antennas, and similar installations:

      (1)   All cellular phone installations shall require Conditional
Use Permit Approval, pursuant to the requirements of Chapter 17.130 of
this Code.

      (2)   Cellular Telephone Towers shall be permitted within all
Business and Manufacturing (BP, LM, MI and ADD), Open Space, Public
Land, Schools, Greenbelt Corridors (OS, DE, UE) and Public Utilities and
Public Facilities (PU and PF) zoning districts.

      (3)   Cellular Telephone Towers shall not be located in
Residential Districts.

      (4)   Design Standards

         A.   Cellular Telephone Towers shall be “Stealth Facilities”,
which means that any Wireless Telecommunications Facility shall be
disguised to appear as another natural or artificial object that exists
in the surrounding environment or which is architecturally integrated
into a building or other structure. They may include, but are not
limited to:

            1.   Co-location on existing electrical transmission towers
within Power Easements.

            2.   Architecturally screened roof mounted antenna.

            3.   Wall or facade-mounted antenna as design features,
clock towers, flagpoles, church crosses, “tree” poles (monopalms,
monopines, or similar).

            4.   Wall Mounted means a Wireless Telecommunication
Facility that is mounted on any vertical surface or nearly vertical
surface of a building or other existing structure that is not
specifically constructed for the purpose of supporting an antenna, such
as exterior walls of a building, an existing parapet, the side of a
water tank, the face of a church steeple, or the side of a freestanding
sign such that the highest point of the Facility is at an elevation
equal to or lower than the highest point of the surface on which it is
mounted.

            5.   Exceptions to this may be granted through the
Conditional Use Permit Process, provided that it can be demonstrated
that the proposed installation would not be unduly intrusive, such as
they are located in proximity to similar existing towers for major
electrical transmission lines.

         B.   Cellular phone towers, antennas, and similar structures
are limited to the maximum height allowed within the Zoning District in
which it is located, unless an RF report prepared by a qualified RF
Engineer and reviewed by the City, demonstrates that: 1) an antenna
built at the Zoning District limit would obstruct the antenna’s
reception window or otherwise excessively interfere with reception and
such obstruction or interference involves factors beyond the applicant’s
control; and 2) there are no other locations within the City available
to the cellular phone provider that would enable the cellular phone
provider to construct an antenna within the limits of the Zoning Code
without limiting cell phone coverage and reception. In such cases, a
maximum height of one hundred feet (100') may be allowed, unless a lower
height is required by a local Airport Land Use Commission (ALUC).

         C.   Setback requirements for cellular phone installations
shall be developed on a case-by-case basis as part of the Conditional
Use Permit Approval.

   (f)   Antennas Used for Transmission Purposes

      The following regulations shall apply to the establishment,
installation, and operation of antennas used to transmit signals of any
type for commercial purposes.

      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2) below, prior to the
approval by the City of the installation of any non-exempt antenna, the
applicant must submit a written statement that the antenna will not be
used for transmission purposes; or, that the use of the antennas for
transmission purposes will not exceed EIRP levels of 80 dBW.

      (2)   Antennas used for transmission purposes which exceed EIRP
levels of 80 dBW may be approved by the Planning Commission, subject to
the imposition of reasonable conditions to protect the applicant and the
public health and safety. Reasonable conditions shall include, but not
be limited to, fencing, screening, warning signs, partial submersion
below ground level, and other like conditions.

      (3)   Antennas used for transmission purposes shall be subject to
the same screening requirements as antennas used for receiving signals.
Transceiver antennas shall be considered to be transmitting antennas for
the purposes of this Chapter.

      (4)   Any applicant aggrieved by a decision of or condition
imposed by the City may appeal that decision or condition pursuant to
Section 2.04.080 et seq. of this Code.

   (g)   Required Criteria and Performance Standards

      The following regulations shall apply to the establishment,
installation, and operation of antennas in all zoning districts:

      (1)   Antennas shall be installed and maintained in compliance
with the requirements of the Building Code. Antenna installers shall
obtain a building permit prior to installation.

      (2)   No advertising material shall be allowed on any antenna.

      (3)   All electrical wiring associated with any antenna shall be
buried underground or hidden in a manner acceptable to the Building
Official.

      (4)   No portion of an antenna array shall extend beyond the
property lines or into any front yard area. Guy wires shall not be
anchored within any front yard area but may be attached to the building.

      (5)   The antenna, including guy wires, supporting structures, and
accessory equipment, shall be located and designed so as to minimize the
visual impact on surrounding properties and from public streets. The
materials used in constructing the antenna shall not be unnecessarily
bright, shiny, garish, or reflective.

      (6)   Every antenna must be adequately grounded for protection
against a direct strike of lightning with an adequate ground wire.
Ground wires shall be of the type approved by the latest edition of the
National Electrical Code, as adopted by the City, for grounding masts
and lightning arresters and shall be installed in a mechanical manner,
with as few bends as possible, maintaining a clearance of at least two
(2) inches from combustible materials. Lightning arresters shall be used
which are approved as safe by the Underwriter’s Laboratories, Inc., and
both sides of the line must be adequately protected with proper
arresters to remove static charges accumulated on the line. When lead-in
conductors of polyethylene ribbon-type are used, lightning arresters
must be installed in each conductor. When coaxial cable or shielded twin
lead is used for lead-in, suitable protection may be provided without
lightning arresters by grounding the exterior metal sheath.

      (7)   A wind velocity test shall be required if deemed necessary
by the Building Official.

   (h)   Variances

      Pursuant to the procedures of Chapter 17.140 et seq. of this
Zoning Code, any person may seek a variance from the provisions of this
Chapter pertaining to antennas and satellite dish antennas. A fee shall
be charged to an applicant for a variance that is required solely for
the purposes of complying with the antenna and/or satellite dish antenna
regulations of this Chapter. Any variance so granted is revocable for
failure by the applicant or property owner to comply with the conditions
imposed. A variance shall be issued for an antenna if it meets the
following standards:

      (1)   Locating the antenna in conformance with the specifications
of this Chapter would obstruct the antenna’s reception window or
otherwise excessively interfere with reception, and such obstruction or
interference involves factors beyond the applicant’s control; or the
cost of meeting the specifications of this Section is excessive, given
the cost of the proposed antenna.

      (2)   The variance application includes a certification that the
proposed installation is in conformance with applicable City Building
Code regulations. Furthermore, the application must contain written
documentation of such conformance, including load distributions within
the building’s support structure, and must be certified by a registered
engineer.

      (3)   If it is proposed that the antenna will be located on the
roof, where possible, the antenna shall be located on the rear portion
of the roof and be consistent with neighboring improvements, uses, and
architectural character.

   (i)   Nonconforming Antennas

      All antennas, in any zone, lawfully constructed and erected prior
to the effective date of this Chapter, which do not conform to the
requirements of the provisions of this Chapter for the particular zoning
district in which they are located, shall be accepted as non-conforming
uses for a period of one (1) year from the date of adoption of this
Chapter. Thereafter, the antennas shall be subject to abatement as set
forth below via removal, modification, or relocation to comply with the
standards of this Chapter. Any antenna constructed or erected in
violation of this Chapter or any prior law, ordinance, or regulation
shall be subject to immediate abatement.

   (j)   Notice of Nonconforming Antennas

      (1)   Upon the determination of the Planning Director that the
provisions of this Chapter apply to a given parcel of land on which an
antenna is located, the Planning Director or his/her designee shall send
a notice thereof by United States certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner thereof as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll and shall cause such property to be posted with a
similar notice.

      (2)   The notice provided for in this Section shall state that the
property and antenna in question is a nonconformity, shall state the
date of abatement established in Section 17.80.020 (i), shall state that
an administrative hearing will be held before the Planning Commission
and shall state the date of such hearing.

   (k)   Hearing; Decision and Order; Appeal; Recordation of Order

      (1)   Within sixty (60) days after the issuance of the notice
prescribed in Section 17.80.020 (j), the Planning Commission shall hold
an administrative hearing to determine whether the nonconformity should
be abated or whether a time extension should be granted as provided in
subsection (7) below.

      (2)   The Planning Commission shall receive written and oral
testimony at such hearing in regard to the abatement.

      (3)   At the close of the hearing, the Planning Commission shall
find and determine whether the nonconformity should be abated and all
facts in support thereof, whether the owner of the property can amortize
his/her investment in the term for abatement provided in Section
17.80.020 (i), and if not, what term for abatement should be provided as
specified in Section 17.80.020 (j).

      (4)   The Planning Commission shall also find and determine
whether the structure encompassing the nonconforming use can be used
economically in its present condition or can be modified successfully
for a purpose permitted in the zoning district in which it is located.

      (5)   The decision of the Planning Commission and the findings in
support thereof shall be in the form of a written order and shall be
served upon the property owner personally or by United States certified
mail, return receipt requested, within ten (10) days after the decision
is rendered.

      (6)   The decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed to
the City Council.

      (7)   After the conclusion of all appeals, notice of the decision
and order of the Planning Commission or the City Council shall be
recorded with the City Clerk.

   (l)   Extension of Time

      (1)   The Planning Commission or City Council on appeal, shall
grant an extension of the time for abatement of nonconformity where it
finds that an unreasonable hardship would otherwise be imposed on the
property owner.

      (2)   The Planning Commission or City Council on appeal, shall
consider the following factors, among others, in determining whether to
grant an extension of time and the length of the term:

         A.   The nature of the use.

         B.   The amount of the owner’s investment in improvements.

         C.   The convertibility of improvements to permitted uses.

         D.   The character of the neighborhood.

         E.   The detriment, if any, caused to the neighborhood by
continuance of the nonconforming use.

         F.   The amount of time needed to amortize the investment.

   (m)   Proof of Amortization

      The Planning Commission, or City Council on appeal, shall base its
decision as to the length of the permitted amortization period on any
competent evidence presented, including, but not limited to, the
depreciation schedule attached to the owner’s latest federal income tax
return.

   (n)   Relocation

      Where the Planning Commission finds that a nonconforming antenna,
either in its present condition or as modified, can be used in
compliance with the standards set forth in this Chapter for the zoning
district in which it is located, the nonconforming antenna may be
granted an extension sufficient to permit it to relocate on the site
wherein such use is permitted and which has substantially equivalent
utility for the use. In no event shall such extension be more than two
(2) years.

   (o)   Antennas Used for Transmission Purposes

      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2) below, prior to the
approval by the City for the installation of any non-exempt antenna, the
applicant must submit a written statement that the antenna will not be
used for transmission purposes; or that the use of the antennas for
transmission purposes will not exceed EIRP levels of 80 dBW.

      (2)   Antennas used for transmission purposes which exceed EIRP
levels of 80 dBW may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to
the imposition of reasonable conditions to protect the applicant and the
public health and safety. Reasonable conditions shall include, but not
be limited to, fencing, screening, warning signs, partial submersion
below ground level, and other like conditions.

      (3)   Any applicant aggrieved by a decision of or condition
imposed by the Planning Commission may appeal that decision or condition
to the City Council, pursuant to Section 2.04.080 et seq of this Code.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit K, 5/22/13; Ord
No. 528, Exhibit Q, 9/10/14.]

17.80.030 Churches, Temples, Religious Institutions, Non-profits and
Other Similar Institutions

   (a)   All churches, temples, religious institutions, non-profits and
other similar institutions shall require a Location and Development Plan
approval and Conditional Use Permit approval, as indicated in Appendix A
.

   (b)   All buildings, structures, setbacks, building height and
landscaping shall be developed in a manner harmonious and compatible
with development on surrounding properties.

   (c)   Off-street parking spaces shall be required as per Chapter
17.65 and 17.15 of this Zoning Code. The number of parking spaces shall
be determined in Table 65-2 of the aforementioned code section. Exterior
parking areas shall be screened with landscaping to be compatible with
and an enhancement to surrounding land uses.

   (d)   All exterior lighting shall be designed, oriented, and
constructed to shield adjacent properties from adverse glare effects.

   (e)   Establishment of a church does not automatically permit any
school, day nursery, kindergarten, or any congregation of persons for
purposes other than religious instruction, worship, or guidance. Any
such additional uses shall be subject to the use requirements of the
zoning district in which they are located.

   (f)   Churches, Temples, religious institutions, non-profit and other
similar institutions proposed to be located in residential zones shall
only be allowed if vehicular access is from a Major Street/Boulevard,
Collector Street, Activity Street or Loop Street-One Way, as identified
in the Circulation Element of the General Plan.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit K, 5/22/13; Ord
No. 528, Exhibit Q, 9/10/14.]

17.80.040 Restrictions on Sales of Tobacco Products.

   (a)   Definitions

      The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article,
shall have the meanings defined in this section unless the context
clearly requires otherwise:

      Tobacco Product means any product(s) that is used to consume
tobacco or any product that contains any tobacco leaf, including but not
limited to: cigarettes, cigars, cigarillos, blunts, snuff,
dipping/chewing tobacco, flavored tobacco, tobacco water, tobacco paste,
gutka, kretek, shisha, roll-your-own cigarettes, cigarette or cigar
rolling papers, or pipes.

      Tobacco Retailer means any person, retail establishment, or any
other legal entity who knowingly sells, donates, distributes, or
delivers to any person(s), for any form of consideration, tobacco
products.

   (b)   Zoning Regulations.

      It is hereby declared that the sense and policy of this section is
that no tobacco retailer shall be permitted to sell, donate, distribute,
or deliver to any person(s), for any form of consideration, tobacco
products within 1,000 feet of any playground, church, public library,
school, or any childcare facility or similar entity providing
structured, organized care for youth.

   (c)   How Distance Measured.

      The 1,000 foot distance provided for in Section 17.80.040(b) shall
be measured as a person walks, using the sidewalk, from the nearest
point of the property line of the playground, church, public library,
school, or childcare facility or similar entity providing structured,
organized care for youth, to the nearest of the property line of the
tobacco retailer.

   (d)   Nonconforming Uses

      The City’s nonconforming use rules, contained in Chapter 17.165
apply to this section. If a tobacco retailer has an interruption of the
continuity of business for a period in excess of six months, in order to
reopen for business, the requirements set forth above must be complied
with.

   (e)   Enforcement.

      Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the
Community Development Director or his designee. In addition, any peace
officer or code enforcement official also may enforce this chapter.

[Ord. No. 496, Section 2, 5/12/10; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit K, 5/22/13; Ord
No. 528, Exhibit Q, 9/10/14.]

17.80.050 (Reserved)

17.80.060 Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS).

   (a)   Wind Energy Conversion Systems shall be classified into three
(3) categories.

      (1)   Category One, consist of large WECS that have one or more
units producing power for sale. This category generates power in excess
of 500 Kw and does not provide power for onsite use. These systems
require the approval of a Conditional Use Permit and Location and
Development Plan and are allowed in the Manufacturing/Industrial (MI),
Airport Development District (ADD), Public Utilities (PU) and Open
Space, Public Land and Schools (OS) zones.

      (2)   Category Two, consist of medium WECS that provide power for
existing onsite structures. These systems may have more than one unit
but produce 500 Kw or less. These systems require the approval of a
Minor Conditional Use Permit and Site Plan and are allowed in all zoning
districts except Single Family Residential (R-S1, R1, R1-.5, R-S5) and
Desert Living (DL-9, DL-5, DL-2.5).

      (3)   Category Three, consist of WECS that provide power for
existing onsite single family residential structures. These systems may
have more than one unit but produce 25 Kw or less. These systems require
the approval of a site plan and can be pole/tower or roof mounted.

   (b)   WECS installed in the DL zone may be 75' in height. All others
shall comply with height limitations for the zoning district they are
installed in.

   (c)   All ground mounted pole/tower WECS shall be set back from
property lines a distance that equals the total height of the system and
shall have a locked anti-climb device installed or be un-climbable by
design for the first 12 feet.

   (d)   All pole mounted WECS shall be of the self supporting monopole
type. WECS requiring the use of guyed wires are only permitted in the DL
zone.

   (e)   No WECS shall emit sounds which exceed 65 decibels at any time
as measured from the property line.

   (f)   All on-site wiring for WECS shall be installed underground.

   (g)   All WECS shall be installed and operated so that the public
health, safety, and welfare of neighboring property owners or occupants
will not be jeopardized.

[Ord. No. 502, Section 5, 4/27/11; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit K, 5/22/13; Ord
No. 528, Exhibit Q, 9/10/14.]

17.80.070 Solar Energy Conversion Systems (SECS).

   (a)   Solar Energy Conversion Systems shall be classified into three
(3) categories.

      (1)   Category One, consist of large SECS that have one or more
units producing power for sale. This category generates power in excess
of 500 Kw and does not provide power for onsite use. These systems
require the approval of a Conditional Use Permit and Location and
Development Plan and are allowed in the Manufacturing/Industrial (MI)
and Airport Development District (ADD) and Open Space (OS) zones, unless
allowed in other zones pursuant to site-specific approval of a SECS
overlay zone pursuant to Subsection (f), below.

      (2)   Category Two, consist of medium SECS that provide power for
existing onsite structures. These systems may have multiple panels but
produce 500 Kw or less. These systems require the approval of a Minor
Conditional Use Permit and Site Plan and are allowed in all zoning
districts except Single Family Residential (R1), (R1-.5) and Desert
Living (DL), unless allowed in other zones pursuant to project-specific
approval of a SECS overlay zone pursuant to Subsection (f), below.

      (3)   Category Three, consist of SECS that provide power for
existing onsite single family residential structures. These systems may
have multiple panels but produce 25 Kw or less. These systems require
the approval of a site plan and can be ground or roof mounted.

   (b)   All SECS shall comply with height limitations and setbacks for
the zoning district they are installed in.

   (c)   No SECS shall emit sounds which exceed 65 decibels at any time
as measured from the property line.

   (d)   All on-site wiring for SECS shall be installed underground.

   (e)   All SECS shall be installed and operated so that the public
health, safety, and welfare of neighboring property owners or occupants
will not be jeopardized.

   (f)   Category One and Category Two SECS proposed outside of a
designation Solar Energy Conversions System Overlay Zone, as identified
in Subsection (a) must obtain approval of a site-specific SECS overlay
zoning designation pursuant to Section 17.80.071 of this Chapter.

[Ord. No. 502, Section 5, 4/27/11; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit K, 5/22/13; Ord
No. 528, Exhibit Q, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 618, Attachment F, 12/9/20.]

17.80.071 Solar Energy Conversion Systems (SECS) Overlay Zone.

   (a)   Purpose and applicability. The purpose of the SECS overlay zone
is to encourage investment in solar energy while providing guidelines
for the installation of solar facilities that complement the surrounding
environment. All SECS shall comply with all applicable provisions of the
city codes and the standards of this section.

   (b)   Approvals required. An applicant shall submit for and receive
approval of a project-specific General Plan Amendment and Zone Change
authorizing a SECS overlay zoning designation, a Conditional Use Permit,
a Location and Development Plan, and a building permit prior to
construction of a SECS, unless the SECS is otherwise allowed pursuant to
Section 17.80.071 of this Chapter.

   (c)   Design requirements.

      (1)   Barbed wire is acceptable on the top of the perimeter fence
to provide site security, but razor wire is prohibited.

      (2)   Portable restroom facilities shall be provided on the
project site for use by maintenance staff.

      (3)   Per the direction of the director of public works, an
applicant shall dedicate right-of-way for all necessary street
improvements.

   (d)   CUP Findings.

      (1)   The SECS conforms with the Adelanto North 2035 Sustainable
Plan policy LC 4.4, which states, “Promote the use of solar, wind, and
other alternative energy generation systems as part of new planned
development.”

      (2)   The SECS conforms with Subsections (b) through (e) of
Section 17.80.070 of this Chapter.

      (3)   The SECS will not, at the location proposed:

         A.   Be materially detrimental to the use, enjoyment, or
valuation of property of other persons located in the vicinity of the
site because the proposed panels are within the height regulations of
the rural residential zones and are designed with adequate setbacks from
the adjacent street.

         B.   Jeopardize, endanger, or otherwise constitute a menace to
the public health, safety, or general welfare because adequate sewer,
water, and drainage improvements will be part of the project.

      (4)   The SECS will not substantially adversely affect other
nearby uses because all aesthetic, noise, and other environmental
concerns will be mitigated through various design features, including
screening and the use of silent or low-noise equipment.

      (5)   The proposed site is adequate in size and shape to
accommodate the SECS and other development features prescribed in the
zoning ordinance or as otherwise required to integrate said use with
surrounding uses.

      (6)   The proposed site is adequately served by the surrounding
streets, which are of sufficient width and improved as necessary to
carry the anticipated daily vehicle trips such use would generate; and
by other public and private service facilities, including sewer, water,
fire, and police services, as required.

      (7)   The proposed use will not result in a significant effect on
the environment because all potential impacts have been found to be less
than significant with the inclusion of mitigation measures or are
determined to be acceptable due to overriding considerations.

         [Ord. No. 618, Attachment F, 12/9/20.]

17.80.080 Cannabis Cultivation.

   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to regulate
the cultivation of adult-use and medical cannabis that is grown in
accordance with State law in order to promote the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the residents and businesses within the
City. The City is authorized to regulate this activity pursuant to the
MAUCRSA.

   (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

      (1)   “Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa
Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted
from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin.
“Cannabis” also means the separated resin, whether crude or purified,
obtained from cannabis. “Cannabis” does not include the mature stalks of
the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted
therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant
which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this division,
“cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section 11018.5
of the Health and Safety Code.

      (2)   “Cultivation” shall be defined in accordance with the
MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section 26001, and other
applicable State laws.

      (3)   “Cultivation Permit” means a City permit to operate an
indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility pursuant
to the terms and conditions of this Section and the conditions of
approval for the permit.

      (4)   “Cultivation Permittee” means an applicant who has applied
for and has been issued a Cultivation Permit by the City pursuant to the
terms and conditions of this Section.

      (5)   “CUP” means a Conditional Use Permit issued by the City in
accordance with this Code.

      (6)   “Fully enclosed and secure structure” means a space within a
building, greenhouse or other structure which has a complete roof
enclosure supported by connecting walls extending from the ground to the
roof, which is secure against unauthorized entry, provides complete
visual screening, and which is accessible only through one or more
lockable doors and is inaccessible to minors.

      (7)   “Indoors” means within a fully enclosed and secure
structure.

      (8)   “MAUCRSA” means the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis
Regulation and Safety Act (MAUCRSA). (Bus. & Prof. Code, section 26000
et seq.)

      (9)   “Medicinal cannabis” or “medicinal cannabis product” means
cannabis or a cannabis product, respectively, intended to be sold for
use pursuant to the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215),
found at Section 11362.5 of the Health and Safety Code and other
applicable State laws, by a medicinal cannabis patient in California who
possesses a physician’s recommendation. For purposes of this definition,
“medical cannabis” also means “medical marijuana.” “Nursery” means an
adult-use and/or medical marijuana cultivation operation that produces
only clones, immature plants, seeds, and other agricultural products
used specifically for the planting, propagation, and cultivation of
medical marijuana, including research and development related thereto.

      (10)   “Outdoors” means any location within the City that is not
within a fully enclosed and secure structure.

   (c)   Cannabis Cultivation Prohibited. All cannabis cultivation
within the City is prohibited except as expressly permitted by this
Section.

   (d)   Indoor Medical Cannabis Cultivation Conditionally Permitted.
Indoor adult- use and medical cannabis cultivation is conditionally
permitted in the City only as expressly specified in this Section.

      (1)   Indoor Medical Cannabis Cultivation Standards. Indoor
adult-use and medical cannabis cultivation, within the City, shall be in
conformance with the following standards:

         A.   Indoor adult-use and medical cannabis cultivation shall
only be allowed upon application and approval of a Cultivation Permit
and a CUP in accordance with the criteria and process set forth in this
Section and this Code.

         B.   Indoor adult-use and medical cannabis cultivation is a
conditionally permitted use only on properties within the City’s
Cannabis Overlay Zones.

         C.   No cannabis cultivation shall be established, developed,
or operated within 600 feet of a school, public playground or park,
child care or day care facility, youth center, or church. All distances
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures, from the nearest point of the building or structure in which
the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation is, or will be
located, to the nearest property line of those uses described in this
Subsection.

         D.   An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility may not be located within the same unit as a cannabis testing
facility.

         E.   Subject to the further requirements of this Section, only
the following State cultivator license classification types “M” and “A”
specified in the MAUCRSA and Business and Professions Code sections
26001 and 26050 will be allowed to operate in the City: 1, 1A, IB, 1C,
2, 2A, 2B, 3, 3A, 3B, and 4.

         F.   Indoor adult-use and medical cannabis cultivation is
allowed only within a fully enclosed and secure structure that is
inaccessible to minors.

         G.   Indoor adult-use and medical cannabis cultivation shall
not exceed the square footage authorized pursuant to the CUP.

         H.   From any public right-of-way, there shall be no visible
exterior evidence of any indoor adult-use or medical cannabis
cultivation activity.

         I.   Indoor adult-use and medical cannabis cultivation activity
may include production of clones, growing marijuana plants, harvesting
marijuana plants, harvesting marijuana seeds, drying marijuana flowers,
producing other agricultural products used specifically for the
planting, propagation, cultivation of adult-use and medical marijuana,
and research and development related to the foregoing, but shall not
include any extraction procedures to produce concentrated THC.

         J.   Indoor adult-use or medical cannabis cultivation shall not
adversely affect the health or safety of the nearby residents by
creating dust, glare, heat, noise, smoke, traffic, vibration, or other
impacts, and shall not be hazardous due to use or storage of materials,
processes, products, or wastes.

         K.   Each indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility shall fully comply with all of the applicable restrictions and
mandates set forth in State law. An indoor adult-use and/or medical
cannabis cultivation facility shall comply with all size requirements
for such facility as imposed by State law. An indoor adult-use and/or
medical cannabis cultivation facility shall not engage in any activities
not allowed by an indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility pursuant to State law. An indoor adult-use and/or medical
cannabis cultivation facility shall comply with all horticultural,
labeling, processing, and other standards required by State law.

         L.   There is no set restriction on the hours of operation of
an indoor adult use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility;
however, restricted hours of operation may be established as a condition
of approval of the Cultivation Permit or the applicable CUP.

         M.   All cannabis shall be kept in a secured manner during all
business and nonbusiness hours.

         N.   An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility shall operate within a legal structure that is compliant with
all applicable State and local laws.

         O.   An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility must pay all applicable sales taxes pursuant to all federal,
State, and local laws.

         P.   On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis or
alcohol shall be prohibited on the premises of an indoor adult-use
and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility. The term “premises” as
used in this Subsection includes the actual indoor adult-use and/or
medical cannabis cultivation building, as well as any accessory
structures and parking areas. The indoor adult-use and/or medical
cannabis cultivation facility building entrance shall be clearly and
legibly posted with a notice indicating that smoking, ingesting, or
consuming cannabis or alcohol on the premises or in the vicinity of the
facility is prohibited.

         Q.   Signage for an indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility shall be limited to name of business only, shall be
in compliance with the City's sign code, and shall contain no
advertising of any companies, brands, products, goods, or services.
Signage shall not include any drug-related symbols.

         R.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, stored,
distributed, or consumed on the premises. An indoor adult-use and/or
medical cannabis cultivation facility shall not hold or maintain a
license from the State Department of Alcohol Beverage Control to sell
alcoholic beverages, or operate a business that sells alcoholic
beverages. In addition, alcohol shall not be provided, stored, kept,
located, sold, dispensed, or used on the premises of any indoor
adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility.

         S.   Physician services shall not be provided on the premises.
“Physician services” does not include social services, including
counseling, help with housing and meals, hospice, and other care
referrals which may be provided on site.

         T.   The building in which any indoor adult-use and/or medical
cannabis cultivation facility is located, as well as the operations as
conducted therein, shall fully comply with all applicable rules,
regulations, and laws including, but not limited to, zoning and building
codes, the City's business license ordinances, the Revenue and Taxation
Code, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the MAUCRSA. Compliance
with all requirements of State law pertaining to indoor cannabis
cultivation is also required.

         U.   An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility shall not manufacture, process, distribute, transport, sell,
dispense, or administer cannabis from the facility, unless expressly and
affirmatively authorized by State law and permitted by local law. An
indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility shall not
be operated as a cannabis manufacturing, distribution, transportation,
or testing facility, or as a cannabis dispensary, unless expressly and
affirmative authorized by State law and permitted by local law.

         V.   The operators of an indoor adult-use and/or medical
cannabis cultivation facility shall provide the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee with the name, phone number, facsimile number, and
email address of an on-site representative to whom the City and the
public can provide notice if there are any operational problems
associated with the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility. An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility shall make every good faith effort to encourage residents and
the public to call this representative to resolve any operational
problems before any calls or complaints are made to the City or law
enforcement.

         W.   An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility shall be operated in accordance with the conditions of approval
associated with the applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon
which the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
activities occur.

         X.   An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility shall have a security plan including the following measures:

            1.   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in
good condition, and used in an on-going manner with at least 120
concurrent hours of digitally recorded documentation in a format
approved by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The cameras
shall be in use 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. The areas to be
covered by the security cameras include, but are not limited to, the
storage areas, cultivation areas, all doors and windows, and any other
areas as determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.
Remote log-in information shall be provided to the City Manager, the
City Manager’s designee, the Manager of Code Enforcement, and law
enforcement to allow them to view the security camera images and
recordings from their own facilities at any time. Any disruption in
security camera images shall be cured expeditiously.

            2.   The indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility shall be alarmed with an alarm system that is
operated and monitored by a reputable security company.

            3.   Entrance to the cultivation area, and all storage
areas, shall be locked at all times, and under the control of the indoor
adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility’s staff.

            4.   The entrances and all window areas shall be illuminated
during evening hours. The facility shall comply with the City's lighting
standards regarding fixture type, wattage, illumination levels,
shielding, etcetera, and shall secure the necessary lighting approvals
and permits as needed.

            5.   All windows on the building that houses the indoor
adult- use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility shall be
appropriately secured and all cannabis securely stored.

         Y.   Recordings made by the security cameras shall be made
available to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, the City’s
Code Enforcement Manager, and law enforcement upon verbal request—no
search warrant or subpoena shall be needed to view the recorded
materials.

         Z.   The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall have the right to enter the adult-use and/or
cannabis cultivation facility for the purpose of making reasonable
inspections to observe and enforce compliance with this Section and all
laws of the City and the State. The City Manager, the City Manager’s
designee, or the Code Enforcement Manager shall maintain a log tracking
the time and date of all inspections, the individuals requesting the
inspection, and the result of each inspection. Individuals participating
in any such inspection must take precautions and comply with standard
safeguards and procedures in place at the facility regarding security,
clean room/clean area access and anti-contamination measures.

         AA.   All batches of final cultivated cannabis must be
inspected and quality tested by a qualified third party distributor and
testing facility prior to distribution to a dispensary as required by
the MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section26100, the Department
of Food and Agriculture regulations, and the State Department of Public
Health regulations.

      (2)   Cultivation Permit Applications. All applicants wishing to
obtain a Cultivation Permit from the City shall file an application with
the City upon a form provided by the City and shall pay a Cultivation
Permit Application Fee as established by the City. An application for a
Cultivation Permit shall include at least the following information:

         A.   An estimate of the size of the proposed indoor adult-use
and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility.

         B.   The address of the location for which the Cultivation
Permit is sought.

         C.   A site plan and floor plan for the proposed premises
denoting the use of all areas on the premises, including storage,
cultivation areas, lighting, signage, etcetera.

         D.   A proposed security plan in compliance with the Indoor
Adult-Use and Medical Cannabis Cultivation Standards.

         E.   The names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of
all potential employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties
for the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility.
Relevant criminal histories shall include any drug-related or felony
convictions, the nature of such offenses, and the sentences received for
such convictions.

         F.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real
property upon which the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation activity is proposed to be conducted. In the event the
applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the application must
be accompanied with a notarized acknowledgement from the owner of the
property that an indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility will be operated on the property.

         G.   Authorization for the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee to seek verification of the information contained within the
application.

         H.   Evidence that the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility will be located in a legal structure that is
compliant with all applicable State and local laws.

         I.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in
the application is true and correct.

         J.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee to
administer this Section.

         K.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall
conduct a background check of any applicant seeking a Cultivation
Permit, including all potential employees and any person who may be a
facility manager or otherwise responsible for the activities of the
indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility
(“Applicant’s Agents”), and shall prepare a report on the acceptability
of the applicant and the Applicant’s Agents and the suitability of the
proposed location.

         L.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall rank
all qualified applications in order of those that best satisfy the
requirements of this Section and provide the highest level of service
and opportunities for residents of the City based on the requirements of
this Section and the following criteria (“Merit List”):

            1.   The operational plan for the facility.

            2.   The security plan for the facility.

            3.   The experience of the operators of the facility.

            4.   The adequacy of capitalization for the facility and its
operations.

            5.   The employment of City residents and other public
benefits to the City.

      (3)   Cultivation Permit. The following conditions apply to each
Cultivation Permit:

         A.   Cultivation Permit will not be awarded to an applicant if:

            1.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents made one or
more false or misleading statements or omissions in the application or
during the application process.

            2.   The proposed indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility is not allowed by State or local law.

            3.   The applicant is not a legal representative of the
indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility.

            4.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have been
convicted of a felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or
the illegal use, possession, transportation, distribution, or any such
similar activity related to controlled substances, with the exception of
cannabis related offenses for which the conviction occurred prior to
passage of Compassionate Use Act. A conviction within the meaning of
this Section means a plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following
a plea of nolo contendere.

            5.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have engaged in
unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive business acts or practices.

            6.   The applicant has not satisfied each and every
requirement of this Section.

         B.   A Cultivation Permit shall be awarded by the City to
eligible Cultivation Permit applicants in order of the Merit List as
established by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The
number of Cultivation Permits shall be limited to those that may be
reasonably accommodated within the Cultivation Zone as determined by the
City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.

         C.   Before a Cultivation Permit can be issued to an applicant,
Cultivation Permit fees must be paid to offset all related costs to the
City, and the proposed indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility location must pass all applicable inspections.

         D.   A Cultivation Permit is subject to the conditions of
approval in the applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon
which the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation activity
occurs.

         E.   A Cultivation Permit is subject to any additional
conditions that may be applied by the City at the time of issuance or
renewal as necessary to properly regulate the activity and protect the
public.

         F.   All cultivation activities shall be subject to an excise
tax to be established by the City and the voters.

         G.   A Cultivation Permittee may not hold or use any other
cannabis activity permits or licenses that would otherwise be a
violation of this Section, the MAUCRSA, or Business and Professions Code
section 26050.

         H.   A Cultivation Permittee shall enter into an agreement with
the City to fully reimburse the City for all fiscal impacts, costs,
expenses, fees, and attorneys’ fees incurred by the City related to the
Cultivation Permit and the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation activity.

         I.   Cultivation Permittees who are in good standing with the
City and who were previously authorized to engage in indoor medical
cannabis cultivation, may request an abbreviated application for a
permit to engage in indoor adult-use cannabis cultivation within the
same cultivation facility, and they may operate under both permits in
the same space, subject to state and local laws. The abbreviated permit
process will allow Cultivation Permittees to submit certain previously
approved application materials for their adult-use Cultivation Permit.
The City reserves the right to request the Cultivation Permittee to
submit a new Cultivation Permit application if the resubmitted materials
do not satisfy the City’s Cultivation Permit requirements. The City
Manager will determine the appropriate fees for the adult-use permit,
and the City Manager shall issue the adult-use permits on an expedited
basis based on the prior applications and approvals.

         J.   A Cultivation Permittee shall:

            1.   Carry liability insurance in the amounts and types set
by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee, and name the City as
an additional insured on all such insurance policies.

            2.   Execute an Indemnification Agreement prepared by the
City that fully indemnifies the City for all liabilities associated with
the Cultivation Permit, the Cultivation Permittee’s cannabis related
activities, and any action taken by the Cultivation Permittee pursuant
to this Section.

            3.   Agree to defend the City, at the Cultivation
Permittee’s sole expense, in any action against the City or its agents,
officers, or employees associated with the Cultivation Permit, the
Cultivation Permittee’s cannabis related activities, or any action taken
by the Cultivation Permittee pursuant to this Section.

            4.   Agree to reimburse the City for all costs, expenses,
fees, and attorney fees incurred by the City related to any action
against the City or its agents, officers, or employees associated with
the Cultivation Permit, the Cultivation Permittee’s cannabis related
activities, or any action taken by the Cultivation Permittee pursuant to
this Section. The City may, at its sole discretion, participate in the
defense of any such action, but such participation shall not relieve the
operator of its obligation hereunder.

         K.   A Cultivation Permittee shall keep the City and law
enforcement updated with the names, addresses, and relevant criminal
histories of all employees, facility managers, and other relevant
parties for the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility at all times. Relevant criminal histories shall include any
drug-related or felony convictions, the nature of such offenses, and the
sentences received for such convictions.

         L.   A Cultivation Permittee shall account for job creation in
the City and shall commit to employing a workforce that resides in the
City. A minimum of 50% of all employees employed by the Cultivation
Permittee at the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility shall be residents of the City. A Cultivation Permittee shall
use good faith efforts to comply with this subsection and shall report
the residential composition of its workforce to the City every year and
at any other time upon demand by the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee.

         M.   A Cultivation Permit issued pursuant to this Section may
be transferred so long as the Permittee satisfies the City’s Cultivation
Permit application requirements and is in good standing with the city
under the following circumstances:

            1.   The transfer results from the existing Permittee
changing the corporation type or business type on file with the
California Secretary of State,

            2.   The transfer is necessary to reflect the death or
disability of an owner and/or person on file with the City as being
responsible for the permitted operations, or

            3.   To reflect a bona-fide transfer of the permit as a part
of a transfer of the permitted operation.

         N.   All Cultivation Permit transfers are subject to the City
Manager’s or his or her designee’s prior approval, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld. A Cultivation Permit shall expire and be null and
void 12 months after issuance to the Cultivation Permittee unless
properly renewed. Upon payment of the applicable Cultivation Permit fees
and passing the requisite Cultivation Permit inspections, a Cultivation
Permittee that has maintained compliance with all City, State, and other
applicable cannabis and business related laws shall be entitled to renew
its Cultivation Permit subject to all prevailing laws at the time of
renewal.

         O.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not
assume any liability, and expressly does not waive sovereign immunity,
with respect to any adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
activities or for the activities of any adult-use and/or indoor medical
cannabis cultivation facility.

      (4)   Conditional Use Permit. All parcels of real property in the
Cultivation Zone upon which indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation activities may occur must obtain a CUP from the City for all
such activities.

      (5)   Oversight Consultants. The City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee may establish an Oversight Consultant List to provide
advice to City staff regarding the practical regulation of adult-use and
medical cannabis activities in the City on an as needed basis. The
Oversight Consultant List will consist of experts and experienced
participants in various disciplines related to commercial adult-use
and/or medical cannabis activities. The Oversight Consultants will not
be a public body, will not meet on a regular schedule, and will not make
or influence policy decisions by City staff. Rather specific individuals
from the Oversight Consultant List will be contacted as necessary to
provide specific advice based on their experience and expertise as a
resource for City staff. The Oversight Consultants, as private citizens,
may also proactively monitor adult-use and medical cannabis activities
in the City and report findings as necessary to City staff.

   (e)   Enforcement.

      (1)   Any cannabis cultivation within the City in violation of
this Section is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.

      (2)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Section, or who
owns, possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property
in the City upon which a violation of the Section is maintained, shall
be subject to the penalties and remedies provided by this Section.

      (3)   Any violation of this Section shall constitute a separate
offense for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.

      (4)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up
to $ 1,000 and up to six months imprisonment per offense.

      (5)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section
shall be punishable by an administrative fine of up to a $1,000 per
offense.

      (6)   Any violation of this Section or any other City or State
cannabis law by a Cultivation Permittee or a Cultivation Permittee’s
agent is grounds for revoking the Cultivation Permittee’s Cultivation
Permit. In addition, the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may
revoke a Cultivation Permit if any of the following occur subject to a
reasonable opportunity for the permittee to cure the deficiency during a
period of no more than 30 days:

         A.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee determines
that the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility
has failed to comply with this Section, any condition of approval, or
any agreement or covenant as required pursuant to this Section.

         B.   The indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
operations cease for more than 90 calendar days.

         C.   Ownership of the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility is changed or transferred to a third party, without
prior City approval.

         D.   The indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility fails to maintain 120 hours of security recordings.

         E.   The indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility fails to provide remote access to the security cameras to the
City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, the Code Enforcement Manager,
or law enforcement, or fails to allow inspection of the security
recordings, the activity logs, or of the premises by authorized City
officials.

      (7)   Any decision regarding the revocation of a Cultivation
Permit may be appealed to an independent neutral third party
administrative hearing officer appointed by the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee (“Hearing Officer”). Said appeal shall be made by a
notice of appeal from the person appealing within 15 days from the date
of the decision. The appeal shall be accompanied by a written verified
declaration setting forth the basis for the claim that the Cultivation
Permit was improperly revoked. The Hearing Officer’s decision shall be
final and binding upon the City and the appellant.

      (8)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition
to any other penalties and remedies available to the City.

[Ord. No. 539, Section 2, 11/23/15; Ord. No. 545, Section 2, 5/25/16;
Ord. No. 556, Section 2, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 558, Section 2, 12/14/16;
Ord. 553, Section 2, 5/24/17; Ord. No. 564, Section 2, 6/28/17; Ord. No.
579, Section 2, 12/13/17; Ord. No. 588, Section 2, 5/23/18; Ord. No.
602, Sections 2 - 4, 6/12/19.]

17.80.081 Cannabis Cultivation Water Requirements.

   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to measure
and monitor the amount of water used for the cultivation of adult-use
and medical cannabis that is grown in accordance with State law within
the City in order to comply with State water reporting requirements.

   (b)   Water Meters. In addition to all applicable State and local
laws and regulations, the following provisions shall apply to medical
cannabis cultivation within the City that is conditionally permitted
under Section 17.80.080 of this Code:

      (1)   Each Cultivation Permittee shall maintain a standard
curbside water meter for consumption and billing purposes (“Standard
Meter”).

      (2)   In addition to a Standard Meter, each Cultivation Permittee
shall install and maintain a separate water meter that exclusively
measures and monitors the amount of water used for cultivation purposes
(“Cultivation Meter”).

   (c)   Water Reporting. In addition to the requirements under
Subsection (b), Cultivation Permittees shall comply with the following
reporting requirements:

      (1)   Each Cultivation Permittee shall report to the City the
monthly quantity of water registered by its Cultivation Meter and used
for cultivation purposes no later than the 10th day of the following
month.

      (2)   Each monthly report submitted by a Cultivation Permittee
shall also include the following information:

         A.   The total amount of water used for cannabis cultivation
(measured in gallons and in acre-feet) for each month for each of the
preceding 12 months. The report shall also tabulate the total amount of
water used for cannabis cultivation for the combined preceding 12
months, as well as the combined months to date for the current calendar
year.

         B.   The total irrigated acreage of cannabis cultivated
(measured in square feet) for the year to date.

         C.   For outdoor, indoor, and mixed light cultivation, the
average cultivated canopy size (measured in square feet) for the
calendar year to date, the total number of plants harvested for the
calendar year to date, and the total number of harvests for the calendar
year to date.

         D.   Specify all the irrigation methods used for cannabis
cultivation including, but not limited to; hand watering; drip or micro
spray irrigation; flood irrigation; and row irrigation.

      (3)   Within 30 days of the effective date of this Section, each
Cultivation Permitee shall submit to the City individual monthly water
reports specifying all the information required under Section
17.80.081(c)(2) for each month since, and including, January 2016.

   (d)   Enforcement.

      (1)   Any cannabis cultivation within the City in violation of
this Section is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.

      (2)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Section, or who
owns, possess, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property in
the City upon which a violation of this Section is maintained, shall be
subject to the penalties and remedies provided by AMC section
17.80.080(e).

[Ord. No. 567, Section 2, 7/12/17; Ord. No. 588, Section 3, 5/23/18.]

17.80.090 Cannabis Manufacturing.

   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to regulate
the manufacturing of adult-use and medical cannabis that is processed in
accordance with State law in order to promote the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the residents and businesses within the
City. The City intends to be on the forefront of medical cannabis
research and manufacturing. The City is authorized to regulate this
activity pursuant to the MAUCRSA.

   (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

      (1)   “Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa
Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted
from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin.
“Cannabis” also means the separated resin, whether crude or purified,
obtained from cannabis. “Cannabis” does not include the mature stalks of
the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted
therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant
which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this division,
“cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section 11018.5
of the Health and Safety Code.

      (2)   “CUP” means a Conditional Use Permit issued by the City in
accordance with this Code.

      (3)   “Fully enclosed and secure structure” means a space within a
building, greenhouse or other structure which has a complete roof
enclosure supported by connecting walls extending from the ground to the
roof, which is secure against unauthorized entry, provides complete
visual screening, and which is accessible only through one or more
lockable doors and is inaccessible to minors.

      (4)   “Manufacturer” and “manufacturing” shall be defined in
accordance with the MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section
26001, and other applicable State laws.

      (5)   “Manufacturing Permit” means a City permit to operate an
adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility pursuant to the
terms and conditions of this Section and the conditions of approval for
the permit.

      (6)   “Manufacturing Permittee” means an applicant who has applied
for and has been issued a Manufacturing Permit by the City pursuant to
the terms and conditions of this Section.

      (7)   “MAUCRSA” means the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis
Regulation and Safety Act (MAUCRSA). (Bus & Prof. Code, section 26000 et
seq.)

      (8)   “Medicinal cannabis” or “medicinal cannabis product” means
cannabis or a cannabis product, respectively, intended to be sold for
use pursuant to the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215),
found at Section 11362.5 of the Health and Safety Code and other
applicable State laws, by a medicinal cannabis patient in California who
possesses a physician’s recommendation. For purposes of this definition,
“medical cannabis” also means “medical marijuana.”

   (c)   Cannabis Manufacturing Prohibited. All cannabis manufacturing
within the City is prohibited except as expressly permitted by this
Section.

   (d)   Cannabis Manufacturing Conditionally Permitted. Adult-use and
medical cannabis manufacturing is conditionally permitted in the City
only as expressly specified in this Section.

      (1)   Cannabis Manufacturing Standards. Adult-use and medical
cannabis manufacturing, within the City, shall be in conformance with
the following standards:

         A.   Adult-use and medical cannabis manufacturing shall only be
allowed upon application and approval of a Manufacturing Permit and a
CUP in accordance with the criteria and process set forth in this
Section and this Code.

         B.   Adult-use and medical cannabis manufacturing is a
conditionally permitted use only on properties within the City’s
Cannabis Overlay Zones.

         C.   No cannabis manufacturing shall be established, developed,
or operated within 600 feet of a school, public playground or park,
child care or day care facility, youth center, or church. All distances
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures, from the nearest point of the building or structure in which
the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing is, or will be
located, to the nearest property line of those uses described in this
Subsection.

         D.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility may not be located within the same unit a cannabis testing
facility.

         E.   Subject to the further requirements of this Section, only
State manufacturer license classification “M” and “A” type 6 level 1 and
type 7 level 2 will be allowed to operate in the City in accordance with
the MAUCRSA, and Business and Professions Code sections 26050 and 26130.

         F.   Adult-use and medical cannabis manufacturing is allowed
only within fully enclosed and secure structures that are inaccessible
to minors.

         G.   Adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing shall not
exceed the square footage authorized pursuant to the CUP.

         H.   From any public right-of-way, there shall be no visible
exterior evidence of any adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
activity.

         I.   Adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing shall not
adversely affect the health or safety of the nearby residents by
creating dust, glare, heat, noise, smoke, traffic, vibration, or other
impacts, and shall not be hazardous due to use or storage of materials,
processes, products, or wastes.

         J.   Each adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility shall fully comply with all of the applicable restrictions and
mandates set forth in State law. An adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility shall comply with all size requirements for such
facility as imposed by State law. An adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility shall not engage in any activities not allowed by
an adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility pursuant to
State law. An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility
shall comply with all horticultural, labeling, processing, and other
standards required by State law.

         K.   There is no set restriction on the hours of operation of
an adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility; however,
restricted hours of operation may be established as a condition of
approval of the Manufacturing Permit or the applicable CUP.

         L.   All cannabis shall be kept in a secured manner during all
business and nonbusiness hours.

         M.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility shall operate within a legal structure that is compliant with
all applicable State and local laws.

         N.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility must pay all applicable sales taxes pursuant to all federal,
State, and local laws.

         O.   On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis or
alcohol shall be prohibited on the premises of an adult-use and/or
medical cannabis manufacturing facility, except as may be permitted by
applicable state laws and regulations pertaining to product testing and
quality control. The term “premises” as used in this Subsection includes
the actual adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing building, as
well as any accessory structures and parking areas. The adult-use and/or
medical cannabis manufacturing facility building entrance shall be
clearly and legibly posted with a notice indicating that smoking,
ingesting, or consuming cannabis or alcohol on the premises or in the
vicinity of the facility is prohibited.

         P.   Signage for an adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility shall be limited to name of business only, shall
be in compliance with the City’s sign code, and shall contain no
advertising of any companies, brands, products, goods, or services.
Signage shall not include any drug-related symbols.

         Q.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, stored,
distributed, or consumed on the premises. An adult-use and/or medical
cannabis manufacturing facility shall not hold or maintain a license
from the State Department of Alcohol Beverage Control to sell alcoholic
beverages, or operate a business that sells alcoholic beverages. In
addition, alcoholic beverages shall not be provided, stored, kept,
located, sold, dispensed, or used on the premises of any medical
cannabis manufacturing facility.

         R.   Physician services shall not be provided on the premises.
“Physician services” does not include social services, including
counseling, help with housing and meals, hospice, and other care
referrals which may be provided on site.

         S.   The building in which any adult-use and/or medical
cannabis manufacturing facility is located, as well as the operations as
conducted therein, shall fully comply with all applicable rules,
regulations, and laws including, but not limited to, zoning and building
codes, the City's business license ordinances, the Revenue and Taxation
Code, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the MAUCRSA. Compliance
with all requirements of State law pertaining to adult-use and medical
cannabis manufacturing is also required.

         T.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility shall not grow, cultivate, distribute, transport, sell,
dispense, or administer cannabis from the facility, unless expressly and
affirmatively authorized by State law and permitted by local law. An
adult- use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility shall not be
operated as a cannabis cultivation, distribution, transportation, or
testing facility, or as a cannabis dispensary, unless expressly and
affirmatively authorized by State law and permitted by local law.

         U.   The operators of an adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility shall provide the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee with the name, phone number, facsimile number, and
email address of an on-site representative to whom the City and the
public can provide notice if there are any operational problems
associated with the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility. An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility
shall make every good faith effort to encourage residents and the public
to call this representative to resolve any operational problems before
any calls or complaints are made to the City or law enforcement.

         V.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility shall be operated in accordance with the conditions of approval
associated with the applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon
which the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing activities
occur.

         W.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility shall have a security plan including the following measures:

            1.   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in
good condition, and used in an on-going manner with at least 120
concurrent hours of digitally recorded documentation in a format
approved by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The cameras
shall be in use 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. The areas to be
covered by the security cameras include, but are not limited to, the
storage areas, manufacturing areas, all doors and windows, and any other
areas as determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.
Remote log-in information shall be provided to the City Manager, the
City Manager’s designee, the Code Enforcement Manager, and law
enforcement to allow them to view the security camera images and
recordings from their own facilities at any time. Any disruption in
security camera images shall be cured expeditiously.

            2.   The adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility shall be alarmed with an alarm system that is operated and
monitored by a reputable security company.

            3.   Entrance to the manufacturing area, and all storage
areas, shall be locked at all times, and under the control of the
adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility’s staff.

            4.   The entrances and all window areas shall be illuminated
during evening hours. The facility shall comply with the City’s lighting
standards regarding fixture type, wattage, illumination levels,
shielding, etcetera, and shall secure the necessary lighting approvals
and permits as needed.

            5.   All windows on the building that houses the adult-use
and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility shall be appropriately
secured and all cannabis securely stored.

         X.   Recordings made by the security cameras shall be made
available to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or law
enforcement upon verbal request—no search warrant or subpoena shall be
needed to view the recorded materials.

         Y.   The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall have the right to enter the adult-use and/or
cannabis manufacturing facility for the purpose of making reasonable
inspections to observe and enforce compliance with this Section and all
laws of the City and the State. The City Manager, the City Manager’s
designee, or the Code Enforcement Manager shall maintain a log tracking
the time and date of all inspections, the individuals requesting the
inspection, and the result of each inspection. Individuals participating
in any such inspection must take precautions and comply with standard
safeguards and procedures in place at the facility regarding security,
clean room/clean area access and anti-contamination measures.

         Z.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility must employ full time quality control personnel. The
Manufacturing Permittee must establish Standard Operating Procedures and
Batch Records that comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices and
the MAUCRSA for all food products, as outlined by the State Department
of Public Health and the Food and Drug Administration.

         AA.   All finished products produced by an adult-use and/or
medical cannabis manufacturing facility must be labeled in compliance
with the MAUCRSA, Business and Profession Code sections 26106 and 26120,
and the labeling requirements outlined by the State Department of Public
Health.

         BB.   All finished products produced by an adult-use and/or
medical cannabis manufacturing facility must be packaged in child
resistant containers prior to leaving the facility or becoming
commercially available in accordance with the MAUCRSA, Business and
Profession Code sections 26106 and 26120, the State Department of Public
Health regulations, and other applicable State laws.

         CC.   All batches of final cannabis products must be inspected
and quality tested by a qualified third party distributor and testing
facility prior to distribution to a dispensary as required by the
MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section 26100, the Department of
Food and Agriculture regulations, and the State Department of Public
Health regulations.

         DD.   All processing and analytical testing devises used by an
adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility must be UL
listed, or otherwise approved for the intended use by the City's
Building Official or the Fire Department. Any processing devices using
only non-pressurized water are exempt from such approval.

         EE.   Unless otherwise prohibited, all processing devices used
by an adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility that
utilize hydrocarbons or otherwise flammable solvents must operate in a
closed loop, or in such a way that all solvent material is recovered in
the process. All hazardous material must be disposed of in a manner
which is compliant with all local, State, and federal guidelines for the
disposal of hazardous materials.

      (2)   Manufacturing Permit Applications. All applicants wishing to
obtain a Manufacturing Permit from the City shall file an application
with the City upon a form provided by the City and shall pay a
Manufacturing Permit Application Fee as established by the City. An
application for a Manufacturing Permit shall include at least the
following information:

         A.   An estimate of the size of the proposed adult-use and/or
medical cannabis manufacturing facility.

         B.   The address of the location for which the Manufacturing
Permit is sought.

         C.   A site plan and floor plan for the proposed premises
denoting the use of all areas on the premises, including storage,
manufacturing areas, lighting, signage, etcetera.

         D.   A proposed security plan in compliance with the Adult-Use
and Medical Cannabis Manufacturing Standards.

         E.   The names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of
all potential employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties
for the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility.
Relevant criminal histories shall include any drug-related or felony
convictions, the nature of such offenses, and the sentences received for
such convictions.

         F.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real
property upon which the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
activity is proposed to be conducted. In the event the applicant is not
the legal owner of the property, the application must be accompanied
with a notarized acknowledgement from the owner of the property that an
adult- use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility will be
operated on the property.

         G.   Authorization for the City Manager or the City Manager's
designee to seek verification of the information contained within the
application.

         H.   Evidence that the adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility will be located in a legal structure that is
compliant with all applicable State and local laws.

         I.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in
the application is true and correct.

         J.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee to
administer this Section.

         K.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall
conduct a background check of any applicant seeking a Manufacturing
Permit, including all potential employees and any person who may be a
facility manager or otherwise responsible for the activities of the
adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility (“Applicant’s
Agents”), and shall prepare a report on the acceptability of the
applicant and the Applicant’s Agents and the suitability of the proposed
location.

         L.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall rank
all qualified applications in order of those that best satisfy the
requirements of this Section and provide the highest level of service
and opportunities for residents of the City based on the requirements of
this Section and the following criteria (“Merit List”):

            1.   The operational plan for the facility.

            2.   The security plan for the facility.

            3.   The experience of the operators of the facility.

            4.   The adequacy of capitalization for the facility and its
operations.

            5.   The employment of City residents and other public
benefits to the City.

      (3)   Manufacturing Permit. The following conditions apply to each
Manufacturing Permit:

         A.   A Manufacturing Permit will not be awarded to an applicant
if:

            1.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents made one or
more false or misleading statements or omissions in the application or
during the application process.

            2.   The proposed adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility is not allowed by State or local law.

            3.   The applicant is not a legal representative of the
adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility.

            4.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have been
convicted of a felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or
the illegal use, possession, transportation, distribution, or any such
similar activity related to controlled substances, with the exception of
cannabis related offenses for which the conviction occurred prior to
passage of the Compassionate Use Act. A conviction within the meaning of
this Section means a plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following
a plea of nolo contendere.

            5.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have engaged in
unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive business acts or practices.

            6.   The applicant has not satisfied each and every
requirement of this Section.

         B.   A Manufacturing Permit shall be awarded by the City to
eligible Manufacturing Permit applicants in order of the Merit List as
established by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The
number of Manufacturing Permits shall be limited to those that may be
reasonably accommodated within the Manufacturing Zone as determined by
the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.

         C.   Before a Manufacturing Permit can be issued to an
applicant, Manufacturing Permit fees must be paid to offset all related
costs to the City, and the proposed adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility location must pass all applicable inspections.

         D.   A Manufacturing Permit is subject to the conditions of
approval in the applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon
which the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing activity
occurs.

         E.   A Manufacturing Permit is subject to any additional
conditions that may be applied by the City at the time of issuance or
renewal as necessary to properly regulate the activity and protect the
public.

         F.   All manufacturing activities shall be subject to an excise
tax to be established by the City and the voters.

         G.   A Manufacturing Permittee may not hold or use any other
cannabis activity permits or licenses that would otherwise be a
violation of the MAUCRSA or Business and Professions Code section 26050.

         H.   A Manufacturing Permittee shall enter into an agreement
with the City to fully reimburse the City for all fiscal impacts, costs,
expenses, fees, and attorneys’ fees incurred by the City related to the
Manufacturing Permit and the adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing activity.

         I.   Manufacturing Permittees who are in good standing with the
City and who were previously authorized to engage in medical cannabis
manufacturing, may request an abbreviated application for a permit to
engage in adult-use cannabis manufacturing within the same manufacturing
facility, and they may operate under both permits in the same space,
subject to state and local laws. The abbreviated permit process will
allow Manufacturing Permittees to submit certain previously approved
application materials for their adult-use Manufacturing Permit. The City
reserves the right to request the Manufacturing Permittee to submit a
new Manufacturing Permit application if the resubmitted materials do not
satisfy the City’s Manufacturing Permit requirements. The City Manager
will determine the appropriate fees for the adult-use permit, and the
City Manager shall issue the adult-use permits on an expedited basis
based on the prior applications and approvals.

         J.   A Manufacturing Permittee shall:

            1.   Carry liability insurance in the amounts and types set
by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee, and name the City as
an additional insured on all such insurance policies.

            2.   Execute an Indemnification Agreement prepared by the
City that fully indemnifies the City for all liabilities associated with
the Manufacturing Permit, the Manufacturing Permittee’s cannabis related
activities, and any action taken by the Manufacturing Permittee pursuant
to this Section.

            3.   Agree to defend the City, at the Manufacturing
Permittee’s sole expense, in any action against the City or its agents,
officers, or employees associated with the Manufacturing Permit, the
Manufacturing Permittee’s cannabis related activities, or any action
taken by the Manufacturing Permittee pursuant to this Section.

            4.   Agree to reimburse the City for all costs, expenses,
fees, and attorney fees incurred by the City related to any action
against the City or its agents, officers, or employees associated with
the Manufacturing Permit, the Manufacturing Permittee’s cannabis related
activities, or any action taken by the Manufacturing Permittee pursuant
to this Section. The City may, at its sole discretion, participate in
the defense of any such action, but such participation shall not relieve
the operator of its obligation hereunder.

         K.   A Manufacturing Permittee shall keep the City and law
enforcement updated with the names, addresses, and relevant criminal
histories of all employees, facility managers, and other relevant
parties for the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility
at all times. Relevant criminal histories shall include any drug-related
or felony convictions, the nature of such offenses, and the sentences
received for such convictions.

         L.   A Manufacturing Permittee shall account for job creation
in the City and shall commit to employing a workforce that resides in
the City. A minimum of 50% of all employees employed by the
Manufacturing Permittee at the adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility shall be residents of the City. A Manufacturing
Permittee shall use good faith efforts to comply with this subsection
and shall report the residential composition of its workforce to the
City every year and at any other time upon demand by the City Manager or
the City Manager’s designee.

         M.   A Manufacturing Permit issued pursuant to this Section may
be transferred so long as the Permittee satisfies the City’s
Manufacturing Permit application requirements and is in good standing
with the city under the following circumstances:

            1.   The transfer results from the existing Permittee
changing the corporation type or business type on file with the
California Secretary of State,

            2.   The transfer is necessary to reflect the death or
disability of an owner and/or the person on file with the City as being
responsible for the permitted operations, or

            3.   To reflect a bona-fide transfer of the permit as a part
of a transfer of the permitted operation.

            All Manufacturing Permit transfers are subject to the City
Manager’s or his or her designee’s prior approval, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld.

         N.   A Manufacturing Permit shall expire and be null and void
12 months after issuance to the Manufacturing Permittee unless properly
renewed. Upon payment of the applicable Manufacturing Permit fees and
passing the requisite Manufacturing Permit inspections, a Manufacturing
Permittee that has maintained compliance with all City, State, and other
applicable cannabis and business related laws shall be entitled to renew
its Manufacturing Permit subject to all prevailing laws at the time of
renewal.

         O.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not
assume any liability, and expressly does not waive sovereign immunity,
with respect to any adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
activities or for the activities of any adult-use and/or medical
cannabis manufacturing facility.

      (4)   Conditional Use Permit. All parcels of real property in the
Manufacturing Zone upon which adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing activities may occur must obtain a CUP from the City for
all such activities.

   (e)   Enforcement.

      (1)   Any cannabis manufacturing within the City in violation of
this Section is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.

      (2)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Section, or who
owns, possess, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property in
the City upon which a violation of the Section is maintained, shall be
subject to the penalties and remedies provided by this Section.

      (3)   Any violation of this Section shall constitute a separate
offense for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.

      (4)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up
to $1,000 and up to six months imprisonment per offense.

      (5)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section
shall be punishable by an administrative fine of up to a $ 1,000 per
offense.

      (6)   Any violation of this Section or any other City or State
cannabis law by a Manufacturing Permittee or a Manufacturing Permittee’s
agent is grounds for revoking the Manufacturing Permittee’s
Manufacturing Permit. In addition, the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee may revoke a Manufacturing Permit if any of the
following occur, subject to a reasonable opportunity for the permittee
to cure the deficiency during a period of no more than 30 days:

         A.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee determines
that the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility has
failed to comply with this Section, any condition of approval, or any
agreement or covenant as required pursuant to this Section.

         B.   The adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
operations cease for more than 90 calendar days.

         C.   Ownership of the adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility is changed or transferred to a third party,
without prior City approval.

         D.   The adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility fails to maintain 120 hours of security recordings.

         E.   T The adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility fails to provide remote access to the security cameras to the
City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, the Code Enforcement Manager,
or law enforcement, or fails to allow inspection of the security
recordings, the activity logs, or of the premises by authorized City
officials.

      (7)   Any decision regarding the revocation of a Manufacturing
Permit may be appealed to an independent neutral third party
administrative hearing officer appointed by the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee (“Hearing Officer”). Said appeal shall be made by a
notice of appeal from the person appealing within 15 days from the date
of the decision. The appeal shall be accompanied by a written verified
declaration setting forth the basis for the claim that the Manufacturing
Permit was improperly revoked. The Hearing Officer’s decision shall be
final and binding upon the City and the appellant.

      (8)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition
to any other penalties and remedies available to the City.

[Ord. No. 545, Section 2, 5/25/16; Ord. No. 556, Section 3, 12/14/16;
Ord. No. 558, Section 3, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 553, Section 3, 5/24/17;
Ord. No. 564, Section 3, 6/28/17; Ord. No. 588, Section 4, 5/23/18; Ord.
No. 602, Sections 5 - 7, 6/12/19.]

17.80.100 Cannabis Distribution.

   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to regulate
the distribution of adult-use and medical cannabis between Medical
Cannabis Permittees in accordance with State law in order to promote the
health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the residents and
businesses within the City. The City is authorized to regulate this
activity pursuant to the MAUCRSA.

   (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

      (1)   “Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa
Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted
from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin.
“Cannabis” also means the separated resin, whether crude or purified,
obtained from cannabis. “Cannabis” does not include the mature stalks of
the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted
therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant
which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this division,
“cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section 11018.5
of the Health and Safety Code.

      (2)   “City” means the City of Adelanto, California.

      (3)   “City Manager” means the individual duly appointed by a
majority of the City Council to serve in the capacity as executive
officer of the City on a permanent or interim basis.

      (4)   “CUP” means a Conditional Use Permit issued by the City in
accordance with this Code.

      (5)   “Distribute” “Distribution” and “Distributor” shall be
defined in accordance with the MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code
section 26001, and other applicable State laws, Distribution shall
include the commercial acts of shipping, storing, and warehousing
medical cannabis.

      (6)   “Distribution Permit” means a City permit to distribute
adult-use and/or medical cannabis between Cannabis Permittees in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Section and the
conditions of approval for the permit.

      (7)   “Distribution Permittee” means a person or entity that has
been issued a Distribution Permit by the City pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this Section.

      (8)   “Fully enclosed and secure structure” means a space within a
building, greenhouse or other structure which has a complete roof
enclosure supported by connecting walls extending from the ground to the
roof, which is secure against unauthorized entry, provides complete
visual screening, and which is accessible only through one or more
lockable doors and is inaccessible to minors.

      (9)   “MAUCRSA” means the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis
Regulation and Safety Act (MAUCRSA). (Bus. & Prof. Code, section 26000
et seq.)

      (10)   “Medicinal cannabis” or “medicinal cannabis product” means
cannabis or a cannabis product, respectively, intended to be sold for
use pursuant to the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215),
found at Section 11362.5 of the Health and Safety Code and other
applicable State laws, by a medicinal cannabis patient in California who
possesses a physician’s recommendation. For purposes of this definition,
“medical cannabis” also means “medical marijuana.” “Cannabis Permittee”
means a person or entity that has been issued a permit by the City, or
another city in the State of California in accordance with the MAUCRSA,
or other applicable State laws, to participate in a commercial adult-use
and/or medical cannabis activity, such as cultivation, manufacturing,
distribution, transportation, testing, dispensing, or delivering.

      (11)   “Physical Location” means a physical place of business,
facility, office, or warehouse owned or operated by a Distribution
Permittee for the distribution or storage of cannabis.

   (c)   Cannabis Distribution Prohibited. All cannabis distribution
within the City is prohibited except as expressly permitted by this
Section.

   (d)   Distribution of Medical Cannabis Conditionally Permitted.
Distribution of adult-use and/or medical cannabis is conditionally
permitted in the City only as expressly specified in this Section.

      (1)   Cannabis Distribution Standards. Adult-use and medical
cannabis distribution within the City shall be in conformance with the
following standards:

         A.   Adult-use and medical cannabis distribution shall only be
allowed upon application and approval of a Distribution Permit and a CUP
in accordance with the criteria and process set forth in this Section
and this Code.

         B.   Physical Location. A Distribution Permittee shall not be
required to own or operate a Physical Location within the City.
Provisions in this Section pertaining solely to a Physical Location
within the City shall not apply to Distribution Permittees who do not
have a Physical Location within the City. The City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee shall have sole and ultimate authority to determine
whether a provision in this Section solely pertains to a Physical
Location, and, therefore, is not applicable to Distribution Permittees
who do not have a Physical Location within the City.

         C.   Adult-use and medical cannabis distribution is a
conditionally permitted use only on properties within the City’s
Cannabis Overlay Zones, except for shipping activities, which shall be
permitted upon established commercial trucking routes.

         D.   Adult-use and medical cannabis distribution activities may
include the receiving and releasing of cannabis plants, flowers, and
products for inspection, testing, and quality assurance.

         E.   No cannabis distribution shall be established, developed,
or operated within 600 feet of a school, public playground or park,
child care or day care facility, youth center, or church, except for
shipping activities, which must follow to established commercial
trucking routes. All distances shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point of the
building or structure in which the cannabis distribution activity is, or
will be, located to the nearest property line of those uses described in
this Subsection.

         F.   Cannabis distribution may not be located within the same
unit of a building or structure as an indoor cannabis testing facility.

         G.   Subject to the further requirements of this Section, only
State Distributor license classification “M” or “A” Type 11 will be
allowed to operate in the City in accordance with the MAUCRSA, and
Business and Professions Code sections 26050 and 26070 Permittee and
other applicable State and local laws.

         H.   Except for commercial shipping operations, adult-use
and/or medical cannabis distribution shall only be allowed within fully
enclosed and secure structures that are inaccessible to minors, and
shall not exceed the square footage authorized pursuant to the
applicable CUP.

         I.   From any public right-of-way, there shall be no visible
exterior evidence of any cannabis distribution activity.

         J.   Cannabis distribution shall not adversely affect the
health or safety of the nearby residents by creating dust, glare, heat,
noise, smoke, traffic, vibration, or other impacts, and shall not be
hazardous due to use or storage of materials, processes, products, or
wastes.

         K.   Any cannabis distribution facility shall fully comply with
all of the applicable restrictions and mandates set forth in State law.
Any cannabis distribution facility shall operate within a legal
structure that is compliant with all applicable State and local laws.
Any cannabis distribution facility shall comply with all size
requirements for such facility as imposed by State law. Any cannabis
distribution facility shall not engage in any activities not allowed by
adult-use and/or medical cannabis distribution facilities pursuant to
State law. Any cannabis distribution facility shall comply with all
horticultural, labeling, processing, and other standards required by
State law.

         L.   There is no set restriction on the hours of operation of
an adult-use and/or medical cannabis distribution activities; however,
restricted hours of operation may be established as a condition of
approval of the Distribution Permit or the applicable CUP.

         M.   All cannabis shall be kept in a secured manner during all
business and nonbusiness hours.

         N.   Each Distribution Permittee must pay all applicable sales
taxes pursuant to all federal, State, and local laws. Each Distribution
Permittee shall pay the City’s Cannabis Excise Tax provided in AMC
chapter 3.60.

         O.   On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis or
alcohol shall be prohibited on the premises of any cannabis distribution
facility. The term “premises” as used in this Subsection includes the
actual cannabis distribution building, as well as any accessory
structures and parking areas. The cannabis distribution facility
building entrance shall be clearly and legibly posted with a notice
indicating that smoking, ingesting, or consuming cannabis or alcohol on
the premises, or in the vicinity of the facility, is prohibited.

         P.   Signage for any cannabis distribution facility shall be
limited to name of business only, shall be in compliance with the City’s
sign code, and shall contain no advertising of any companies, brands,
products, goods, or services. Signage shall not include any drug-related
symbols.

         Q.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, stored,
distributed, or consumed on the premises. Distribution Permittees shall
not hold or maintain a license from the State Department of Alcohol
Beverage Control to sell alcoholic beverages, or operate a business that
sells alcoholic beverages. In addition, alcohol shall not be provided,
stored, kept, located, sold, dispensed, or used on the premises of any
cannabis distribution facility.

         R.   Physician services shall not be provided on the cannabis
distribution premises.

         S.   The building in which any cannabis distribution facility
is located, as well as the operations conducted therein, shall fully
comply with all applicable rules, regulations, and laws including, but
not limited to, zoning and building codes, the City’s business license
ordinances, the Revenue and Taxation Code, the Americans with
Disabilities Act, and the MAUCRSA. Compliance with all requirements of
State law pertaining to medical cannabis distribution is also required.

         T.   A Distribution Permittee shall not grow, cultivate,
manufacture, process, transport, dispense, or administer cannabis,
unless expressly and affirmatively authorized by State law. Any cannabis
distribution facility shall not be operated as a cannabis testing
facility unless expressly and affirmatively authorized by State and
local law.

         U.   The operators of any cannabis distribution facility shall
provide the City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, with the name,
phone number, facsimile number, and email address of an on-site
representative to whom the City and the public can provide notice if
there are any operational problems associated with the cannabis
distribution facility. Any cannabis distribution facility shall make
every good faith effort to encourage residents and the public to call
this representative to resolve any operational problems before any calls
or complaints are made to the City or law enforcement.

         V.   Any cannabis distribution facility shall be operated in
accordance with the conditions of approval associated with the
applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon which the cannabis
distribution activities occur.

         W.   Any cannabis distribution facility shall have a security
plan including the following measures:

            1.   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in
good condition, and used in an on-going manner with at least 120
concurrent hours of digitally recorded documentation in a format
approved by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The cameras
shall be in use 24 hours per day, seven days per week. The areas to be
covered by the security cameras include, but are not limited to, the
storage areas, distribution areas, all doors and windows, and any other
areas as determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.
Remote log-in information shall be provided to the City Manager, the
City Manager’s designee, the Code Enforcement Manager, and law
enforcement to allow them to view the security camera images and
recordings from their own facilities at any time. Any disruption in
security camera images shall be cured expeditiously.

            2.   The cannabis distribution facility shall be secured
with an alarm system that is operated and monitored by a reputable
security company.

            3.   Entrance to the distribution area, and all storage
areas, shall be locked at all times, and under the control of the
medical cannabis distribution facility’s staff.

            4.   The entrances and all window areas shall be illuminated
during evening hours. The facility shall comply with the City’s lighting
standards regarding fixture type, wattage, illumination levels,
shielding, etcetera, and shall secure the necessary lighting approvals
and permits as needed.

            5.   All windows on the building that houses the cannabis
distribution facility shall be appropriately secured and all cannabis
securely stored.

         X.   Recordings made by the security cameras shall be made
available to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or law
enforcement upon verbal request—no search warrant or subpoena shall be
needed to view the recorded materials.

         Y.   The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall have the right to enter the adult-use and/or
cannabis distribution facility for the purpose of making reasonable
inspections to observe and enforce compliance with this Section and all
laws of the City and the State. The City Manager, the City Manager’s
designee, or the Code Enforcement Manager shall maintain a log tracking
the time and date of all inspections, the individuals requesting the
inspection, and the result of each inspection. Individuals participating
in any such inspection must take precautions and comply with standard
safeguards and procedures in place at the facility regarding security,
clean room/clean area access and anti-contamination measures.

         Z.   A Distribution Permittee shall only distribute adult-use
and/or medical cannabis between the business locations of Medical
Cannabis Permittees.

         AA.   A Distribution Permittee shall inspect all cannabis and
cannabis products received for quality assurance prior to distributing
to any Cannabis Permittee.

         BB.   A Distribution Permittee shall distribute batches of
cultivated cannabis and cannabis products to dispensaries only after
those batches have been inspected and quality tested by a qualified
third party testing facility as required by the MAUCRSA, Business and
Professions Code section 26100, the Department of Food and Agriculture
regulations, and the State Department of Public Health regulations.

         CC.   A Distribution Permittee shall not distribute or arrange
for the distribution to a dispensary of any batch of adult-use and/or
medical cannabis or cannabis products that a qualified third party
testing facility has determined fails to comply with the health and
safety standards promulgated by the State Department of Public Health,
unless remedial measures can bring the cannabis into compliance.

         DD.   A Distribution Permittee must destroy any batch of
adult-use and/or medical cannabis or cannabis products that a qualified
third party testing facility has determined fails to comply with health
and safety standards promulgated by the State Department of Public
Health, unless remedial measures can bring the cannabis into compliance.

         EE.   Each Distribution Permittee shall register with the City
every Physical Location the Distribution Permittee owns or operates
within the City.

         FF.   A Distribution Permittee shall identify in its
application for a Distribution Permit every Physical Location the
Distribution Permittee owns or operates throughout the State.

         GG.   Storage of Cannabis. A Distribution Permittee may store
adult-use and/or medical cannabis and adult-use and/or medical cannabis
products subject to the following requirements:

            1.   Each batch of cannabis shall be stored separately and
distinctly from every other batch of cannabis.

            2.   Each batch of stored cannabis shall have a label
attached thereto that includes at least the following information: the
Distribution Permittee’s name and Distribution Permit number; the date
of entry into the Distribution Permittee’s storage area; the unique
identifiers and batch number associated with the batch; description of
the cannabis product with enough detail to easily identify the batch;
and the weight of the batch, or quantity of units in the batch.

            3.   Each batch of cannabis or cannabis products shall be
stored in a building that is designed to permit control of temperature
and humidity, and also prevents the entry of environmental contaminants
such as smoke or dust. The storage area shall not be exposed to direct
sunlight. Employee breakrooms, changing facilities, and bathrooms shall
be completely separated from each storage area.

            4.   Distribution Permittees may store vehicles and cannabis
or cannabis products in facilities located offsite from their permitted
distribution facility so long as the offsite facilities are located in
the applicable Cannabis Overlay Zone, the facilities meet the
requirements of this Section, and the City approves the offsite
facilities through its entitlement process for the specific use of
cannabis distribution.

            5.   Cannabis shall not be stored outdoors.

         HH.   Packaging and Labeling of Cannabis. Each Distribution
Permittee must comply with all applicable adult-use and/or medical
cannabis packaging and labeling laws, including, but not limited to,
Business and Professions Code sections 26106 and 26120. A Distribution
Permittee may package, re-package, label, and re-label adult-use and/or
medical cannabis in the form of dried flower on behalf of a cultivator
or another distributor. A Distribution Permittee shall not package,
re-package, label, or relabel manufactured adult-use and/or medical
cannabis or adult-use and/or medical cannabis products. Prior to
distributing any adult-use and/or medical cannabis or adult-use and/or
medical cannabis products to a dispensary, each Distribution Permittee
shall ensure that the label and packaging of each batch of adult-use
and/or medical cannabis or adult-use and/or medical cannabis products
complies with all applicable adult-use and/or medical cannabis packaging
and labeling laws, including, but not limited to, Business and
Professions Code sections 26106 and 26120.

         II.   Inventory Log. Each Distribution Permittee shall maintain
an inventory log, containing at least the following information for each
batch of adult-use and/or medical cannabis distributed or stored:
information regarding the origin of the batch; the date and time of
physical transfer to the Distribution Permittee; the unique identifiers
of the batch; the total weight or amount of the batch; the storage
conditions the batch is held in; the best-by, sell-by, or expiration
date of each batch, if any; shipping manifests and bills of lading; a
copy of the service or sale contract pertaining to the batch; and
warehouse receipts. Each Distribution Permittee shall reconcile all of
its inventories of adult-use and/or medical cannabis or adult-use and/or
medical cannabis products at least once per week.

         JJ.   A Distribution Permittee shall notify the City Manager or
the City Manager’s designee within 24 hours of discovering any of the
following:

            1.   Significant discrepancies identified during inventory.
The level of significance shall be determined by the City Manager or the
City Manager’s designee.

            2.   Diversion, theft, loss, or any criminal activity
involving the distribution facility or any agent or employee of the
Distribution Permittee.

            3.   The loss or unauthorized alteration of records related
to adult-use and/or medical cannabis distribution activity.

            4.   Any other breach of security.

      (2)   Distribution Permit Applications. All applicants wishing to
obtain a Distribution Permit from the City shall file an application
with the City upon a form provided by the City and shall pay a
Distribution Permit Application Fee as established by the City. An
application for a Distribution Permit shall include at least the
following information:

         A.   The address of the applicant’s headquarters.

         B.   The names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of
all potential employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties
for the proposed distribution activities. Relevant criminal histories
shall include any drug-related or felony convictions, the nature of such
offenses, and the sentences received for such convictions.

         C.   Evidence that the applicant has identified every Physical
Location the applicant owns or operates throughout the State.

         D.   Authorization for the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee to seek verification of the information contained within the
application.

         E.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in
the application is true and correct.

         F.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee to
administer this Section.

         G.   An application for a Distribution Permit involving a
Physical Location shall also include at least the following information:

            1.   An estimate of the size of the proposed adult-use
and/or medical cannabis distribution facility.

            2.   The address of the location for which the Distribution
Permit is sought.

            3.   A site plan and floor plan for the proposed premises
denoting the use of all areas on the premises, including storage,
distribution areas, lighting, signage, etcetera.

            4.   A proposed security plan in compliance with the
Adult-use and Medical Cannabis Distribution Standards.

            5.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the
real property upon which the adult-use and/or medical cannabis
distribution activity is proposed to be conducted. In the event the
applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the application must
be accompanied with a notarized acknowledgement from the owner of the
property that an adult- use and/or medical cannabis distribution
facility will be operated on the property.

            6.   Evidence that the adult-use and/or medical cannabis
distribution facility will be located in a legal structure that is
compliant with all applicable State and local laws.

            7.   Evidence that the applicant has registered with the
City every Physical Location the applicant owns or operates within the
City.

         H.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall
conduct a background check of any applicant seeking a Distribution
Permit, including all potential employees and any person who may be a
facility manager or otherwise responsible for the proposed distribution
activities (“Applicant’s Agents”), and shall prepare a report on the
acceptability of the applicant and the Applicant’s Agents and the
suitability of the proposed Physical Location, if any.

         I.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall rank
all qualified applications in order of those that best satisfy the
requirements of this Section and provide the highest level of service
and opportunities for residents of the City based on the requirements of
this Section and the following criteria (“Merit List”):

            1.   The operational plan for the distribution activities.

            2.   The security plan for the distribution activities.

            3.   The experience of the operators of the distribution
activities.

            4.   The adequacy of capitalization for the Physical
Location, if any, and its operations.

            5.   The employment of City residents and other public
benefits to the City.

      (3)   Distribution Permit. The following conditions apply to
Distribution Permits:

         A.   A Distribution Permit will not be awarded to an applicant
if:

            1.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents made one or
more false or misleading statements or omissions in the application or
during the application process.

            2.   The proposed adult-use and/or medical cannabis
distribution activity or Physical Location, if any, is not allowed by
State or local law.

            3.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have been
convicted of a felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or
the illegal use, possession, distribution, transportation, or any such
similar activity related to controlled substances, with the exception of
cannabis related offenses for which the conviction occurred prior to
passage of Compassionate Use Act. A conviction within the meaning of
this Section means a plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following
a plea of nolo contendere.

            4.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have engaged in
unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive business acts or practices.

            5.   The applicant has not satisfied each and every
requirement of this Section.

         B.   A Distribution Permit shall be awarded by the City to
eligible Distribution Permit applicants in order of the Merit List as
established by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The
number of Distribution Permits shall be limited to those that may be
reasonably accommodated within the City’s Cannabis Overlay Zones as
determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.

         C.   Before a Distribution Permit can be issued to an
applicant, Distribution Permit fees must be paid to offset all related
costs to the City, and the proposed Physical Location, if any, must pass
all applicable inspections.

         D.   Each Distribution Permit involving a Physical Location is
subject to the conditions of approval in the applicable CUP for the
parcel of real property upon which the medical cannabis distribution
activity occurs.

         E.   Each Distribution Permit is subject to any additional
conditions that may be applied by the City at the time of issuance or
renewal as necessary to properly regulate the cannabis distribution
activities and to protect the public.

         F.   All distribution activities shall be subject to the City’s
Cannabis Excise Tax provided in AMC chapter 3.60.

         G.   Each Distribution Permittee shall enter into an agreement
with the City to fully reimburse the City for all fiscal impacts, costs,
expenses, fees, and attorneys’ fees incurred by the City related to the
Distribution Permit and the cannabis distribution activity.

         H.   Distribution Permittees who are in good standing with the
City and who were previously authorized to engage in medical cannabis
distribution, may request an abbreviated application for a permit to
engage in adult-use cannabis distribution within the same distribution
facility, and they may operate under both permits in the same space,
subject to state and local laws. The abbreviate permit process will
allow Distribution Permittees to submit certain previously approved
application materials for their adult-use Distribution Permit. The City
reserves the right to request the Distribution Permittee to submit a new
Distribution Permit application if the resubmitted materials do not
satisfy the City’s Distribution Permit requirements. The City Manager
will determine the appropriate fees for the adult-use permit, and the
City Manager shall issue the adult-use permits on an expedited basis
based on the prior applications and approvals.

         I.   Each Distribution Permittee shall:

            1.   Carry liability insurance in the amounts and types set
by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee, and name the City as
an additional insured on all such insurance policies.

            2.   Execute an Indemnification Agreement prepared by the
City that fully indemnifies the City for all liabilities associated with
the Distribution Permit, the Distribution Permittee’s cannabis related
activities, and any action taken by the Distribution Permittee pursuant
to this Section.

            3.   Defend the City, at the Distribution Permittee’s sole
expense, in any action against the City or its agents, officers, or
employees associated with the Distribution Permit, the Distribution
Permittee’s cannabis related activities, or any action taken by the
Distribution Permittee pursuant to this Section. The City may, at its
sole discretion, participate in the defense of any such action, but such
participation shall not relieve the Distribution Permittee of its
indemnification and reimbursement obligations.

            4.   Reimburse the City for all costs, expenses, fees, and
attorney fees incurred by the City related to any action against the
City or its agents, officers, or employees associated with the
Distribution Permit, the Distribution Permittee’s cannabis related
activities, or any action taken by the Distribution Permittee pursuant
to this Section.

         J.   A Distribution Permittee shall keep the City and law
enforcement updated with the names, addresses, and relevant criminal
histories of all employees, facility managers, and other relevant
parties for the adult-use and/or medical cannabis distribution
activities at all times. Relevant criminal histories shall include any
drug-related or felony convictions, the nature of such offenses, and the
sentences received for such convictions.

         K.   A Distribution Permittee shall account for job creation in
the City and shall commit to employing a workforce that resides in the
City. For Distribution Permittees with a Physical Location, a minimum of
50% of all employees employed by the Distribution Permittee at the
Physical Location shall be residents of the City. A Distribution
Permittee shall use good faith efforts to comply with this Subsection
and shall report the residential composition of its workforce to the
City every year and at any other time upon demand by the City Manager or
the City Manager’s designee.

         L.   A Distribution Permit issued pursuant to this Section may
be transferred so long as the Permittee satisfies the City’s
Distribution Permit application requirements and is in good standing
with the city under the following circumstances:

            1.   The transfer results from the existing Permittee
changing the corporation type on file with the California Secretary of
State,

            2.   The transfer is necessary to reflect the death or
disability of an owner and/or the person on file with the City as being
responsible for the permitted operations, or

            3.   To reflect a bona-fide transfer of the permit as a part
of a transfer of the permitted operation.

            All Distribution Permit transfers are subject to the City
Manager’s or his or her designee’s prior approval, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld.

         M.   A Distribution Permit shall expire and be null and void 12
months after issuance to the Distribution Permittee unless properly
renewed. Upon payment of the applicable Distribution Permit fees, and
passing any requisite Distribution Permit inspections, a Distribution
Permittee that has maintained compliance with all City, State, and other
applicable cannabis and business related laws shall be entitled to renew
its Distribution Permit subject to all prevailing laws at the time of
renewal.

         N.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not
assume any liability, and expressly does not waive sovereign immunity,
with respect to any cannabis distribution activities, or for the
activities of any Distribution Permittee.

      (4)   Conditional Use Permit. All parcels of real property within
the City’s Cannabis Overlay Zones, upon which cannabis distribution
activities may occur, must obtain a CUP from the City for all such
activities.

   (e)   Enforcement.

      (1)   Any cannabis distribution within the City in violation of
this Section is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.

      (2)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Section, or who
owns, possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property
in the City upon which a violation of this Section is maintained, shall
be subject to the penalties and remedies provided by this Section.

      (3)   Any violation of this Section shall constitute a separate
offense for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.

      (4)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up
to $ 1,000 and up to six months imprisonment per offense per day.

      (5)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section
shall be punishable by an administrative fine of up to a $1,000 per
offense per day.

      (6)   Any violation of this Section or any other City or State
cannabis law by a Distribution Permittee, or a Distribution Permittee’s
agent, is grounds for revoking the relevant Distribution Permit. In
addition, the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may revoke a
Distribution Permit if any of the following occur subject to a
reasonable opportunity for the permittee to cure the deficiency during a
period of no more than 30 days:

         A.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee determines
that the Distribution Permittee has failed to comply with this Section,
any condition of approval, or any agreement or covenant as required
pursuant to this Section.

         B.   The adult-use and/or medical cannabis distribution
operations cease for more than 90 calendar days.

      (7)   For Distribution Permits involving a Physical Location, the
City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may also revoke the
Distribution Permit if any of the following occur:

         A.   Ownership of the Physical Location is changed or
transferred to a third party, without prior City approval.

         B.   The Physical Location fails to maintain 120 hours of
security recordings.

         C.   The Physical Location fails to provide remote access to
the security cameras to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee,
the Code Enforcement Manager, or law enforcement, or fails to allow
inspection of the security recordings, the activity logs, or of the
premises by authorized City officials.

      (8)   Any decision regarding the revocation of a Distribution
Permit may be appealed to an independent neutral third party
administrative hearing officer appointed by the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee (“Hearing Officer”). Said appeal shall be made by a
notice of appeal from the person appealing within 15 days from the date
of the decision to revoke the Distribution Permit. The appeal shall be
accompanied by a written verified declaration setting forth the basis
for the claim that the Distribution Permit was improperly revoked. The
Hearing Officer’s decision shall be final and binding upon the City and
the appellant.

      (9)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition
to any other penalties and remedies available to the City.

[Ord. No. 548, Section 2, 10/12/16; Ord. No. 556, Section 4, 12/14/16;
Ord. No. 558, Section 4, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 564, Section 4, 6/28/17;
Ord. No. 573, Section 2, 7/12/17; Ord. No. 588, Section 5, 5/23/18; Ord.
No. 602, Sections 8 - 11, 6/12/19.]

17.80.101   Cannabis Transportation.

   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to regulate
the transportation of adult-use and medical cannabis between Cannabis
Permittees in accordance with State law in order to promote the health,
safety, morals, and general welfare of the residents- and businesses
within the City. The City is authorized to regulate this activity
pursuant to the MAUCRSA.

   (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

      (1)   “Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa
Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted
from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin.
“Cannabis” also means the separated resin, whether crude or purified,
obtained from cannabis. “Cannabis” does not include the mature stalks of
the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted
therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant
which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this division,
“cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section 11018.5
of the Health and Safety Code.

      (2)   “City” means the City of Adelanto, California.

      (3)   “City Manager” means the individual duly appointed by a
majority of the City Council to serve in the capacity as executive
officer of the City on a permanent or interim basis.

      (4)   “CUP” means a Conditional Use Permit issued by the City in
accordance with this Code.

      (5)   “Fully enclosed and secure structure” means a space within a
building, greenhouse or other structure which has a complete roof
enclosure supported by connecting walls extending from the ground to the
roof, which is secure against unauthorized entry, provides complete
visual screening, and which is accessible only through one or more
lockable doors and is inaccessible to minors.

      (6)   “MAUCRSA” means the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis
Regulation and Safety Act (MAUCRSA). (Bus. & Prof. Code, seciton 26000
et seq.)

      (7)   “Medicinal cannabis” or “medicinal cannabis product” means
cannabis or a cannabis product, respectively, intended to be sold for
use pursuant to the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215),
found at Section 11362.5 of the Health and Safety Code and other
applicable State laws, by a medicinal cannabis patient in California who
possesses a physician’s recommendation. For purposes of this definition,
“medical cannabis” also means “medical marijuana.” “Cannabis Permittee”
means a person or entity that has been issued a permit by the City, or
another city in the State of California in accordance with the MAUCRSA
or other applicable State laws, to participate in a commercial adult-use
and/or medical cannabis activity, such as cultivation, manufacturing,
distribution, transportation, testing, dispensing, or delivering.

      (8)   “Physical Location” means a physical place of business,
facility, office, or warehouse owned or operated by a Transportation
Permittee for the transportation or storage of cannabis.

      (9)   “Transport,” “Transporter,” and “Transportation” shall be
defined and “Distribution” is defined in accordance with the MAUCRSA,
Business and Professions Code section 26001, and other applicable State
laws.

      (10)   “Transportation Permit” means a City permit to distribute
or transport adult-use and/or medical cannabis between Cannabis
Permittees in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Section
and the conditions of approval for the permit.

      (11)   “Transportation Permittee” means a person or entity that
has been issued a Distribution/Transportation Permit by the City
pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Section.

      (12)   “Transport Vehicle” means a commercial vehicle or trailer
owned or operated by a Transportation Permittee to transport adult-use
and/or medical cannabis that has been approved by the Bureau of Cannabis
Control for adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation and
complies with all of the requirements of this Section. Transport vehicle
does not include aircrafts, watercrafts, drones, rails, human powered
vehicles, or unmanned vehicles.

   (c)   Cannabis Transportation Prohibited. All cannabis transportation
within the City is prohibited except as expressly permitted by this
Section.

   (d)   Transportation of Cannabis Conditionally Permitted.
Transportation of adult- use and/or medical cannabis is conditionally
permitted in the City only as expressly specified in this Section.

      (1)   Cannabis Transportation Standards. Adult-use and medical
cannabis transportation within the City shall be in conformance with the
following standards:

         A.   Adult-use and medical cannabis transportation shall only
be allowed upon application and approval of a Transportation Permit and
a CUP in accordance with the criteria and process set forth in this
Section and this Code.

         B.   Physical Location. A Transportation Permittee shall not be
required to own or operate a Physical Location within the City.
Provisions in this Section pertaining solely to a Physical Location
within the City shall not apply to Transportation Permittees who do not
have a Physical Location within the City. The City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee shall have sole and ultimate authority to determine
whether a provision in this Section solely pertains to a Physical
Location, and, therefore, is not applicable to Transportation Permittees
who do not have a Physical Location within the City.

         C.   Adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation is a
conditionally permitted use only on properties within the City’s
Cannabis Overlay Zones, except for shipping activities, which shall be
permitted upon established commercial trucking routes.

         D.   Adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation
activities may include the receiving and releasing of cannabis plants,
flowers, and products for inspection, testing, and quality assurance.

         E.   No cannabis transportation shall be established,
developed, or operated within 600 feet of a school, public playground or
park, child care or day care facility, youth center, or church, except
for shipping activities, which must follow to established commercial
trucking routes. All distances shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point of the
building or structure in which the cannabis transportation activity is,
or will be, located to the nearest property line of those uses described
in this Subsection.

         F.   Cannabis transportation may not be located within the same
unit as a cannabis testing facility.

         G.   Subject to the further requirements of this Section, only
State Transporter license classifications “M” or “A” Type 11 will be
allowed to operate in the City in accordance with the MAUCRSA and
Business and Professions Code sections 26050 and 26070.

         H.   Adult-use and medical cannabis transportation is allowed
only within Transport Vehicles or fully enclosed and secure structures
that are inaccessible to minors.

         I.   Except for commercial shipping operations, adult-use
and/or medical cannabis transportation activities shall not exceed the
square footage authorized pursuant to the applicable CUP.

         J.   From any public right-of-way, there shall be no visible
exterior evidence of any cannabis transportation activity.

         K.   Cannabis transportation shall not adversely affect the
health or safety of the nearby residents by creating dust, glare, heat,
noise, smoke, traffic, vibration, or other impacts, and shall not be
hazardous due to use or storage of materials, processes, products, or
wastes.

         L.   Any cannabis transportation facility shall fully comply
with all of the applicable restrictions and mandates set forth in State
law. Any cannabis transportation facility shall operate within a legal
structure that is compliant with all applicable State and local laws.
Any cannabis transportation facility shall comply with all size
requirements for such facility as imposed by State law. Any cannabis
transportation facility shall not engage in any activities not allowed
by an adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation facilities
pursuant to State law. Any cannabis transportation facility shall comply
with all horticultural, labeling, processing, and other standards
required by State law.

         M.   There is no set restriction on the hours of operation of
adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation activities; however,
restricted hours of operation may be established as a condition of
approval of the Transportation Permit or the applicable CUP.

         N.   All cannabis shall be kept in a secured manner during all
business and nonbusiness hours.

         O.   Each Transportation Permittee must pay all applicable
sales taxes pursuant to all federal, State, and local laws. Each
Transportation Permittee shall pay the City’s Cannabis Excise Tax
provided in AMC chapter 3.60.

         P.   On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis or
alcohol shall be prohibited on the premises of any cannabis
transportation facility or on any Transport Vehicle. The term,
“premises” as used in this Subsection includes the actual cannabis
transportation building, as well as any accessory structures and parking
areas. The cannabis transportation facility building entrance shall be
clearly and legibly posted with a notice indicating that smoking,
ingesting, or consuming cannabis or alcohol on the premises, or in the
vicinity of the facility, is prohibited.

         Q.   Signage for any cannabis transportation facility shall be
limited to name of business only, shall be in compliance with the City’s
sign code, and shall contain no advertising of any companies, brands,
products, goods, or services. Signage shall not include any drug-related
symbols.

         R.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, stored,
distributed, or consumed on the premises of any cannabis transportation
facility or on a Transport Vehicle. Transportation Permittees shall not
hold or maintain a license from the State Department of Alcohol Beverage
Control to sell alcoholic beverages, or operate a business that sells
alcoholic beverages. In addition, alcohol shall not be provided, stored,
kept, located, sold, dispensed, or used on the premises of any cannabis
transportation facility or on a Transport Vehicle.

         S.   Physician services shall not be provided on the cannabis
transportation premises.

         T.   The building in which any cannabis transportation facility
is located, as well as the operations conducted therein, shall fully
comply with all applicable rules, regulations, and laws including, but
not limited to, zoning and building codes, the City’s business license
ordinances, the Revenue and Taxation Code, the Americans with
Disabilities Act, and the MAUCRSA. Compliance with all requirements of
State law pertaining to adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation
is also required.

         U.   Transportation Permittees shall not grow, cultivate,
manufacture, process, distribute, dispense, or administer cannabis,
unless expressly and affirmatively authorized by State law and local
law. Any cannabis transportation facility shall not be operated as a
cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, distribution, or testing facility,
or as cannabis dispensary, unless expressly and affirmatively authorized
by State and local law.

         V.   The operators of any cannabis transportation facility
shall provide the City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, with the
name, phone number, facsimile number, and email address of an on-site
representative to whom the City and the public can provide notice if
there are any operational problems associated with the cannabis
transportation facility. Any cannabis transportation facility shall make
every good faith effort to encourage residents and the public to call
this representative to resolve any operational problems before any calls
or complaints are made to the City or law enforcement.

         W.   Any cannabis transportation facility shall be operated in
accordance with the conditions of approval associated with the
applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon which the cannabis
transportation activities occur.

         X.   Any cannabis transportation facility shall have a security
plan including the following measures;

            1.   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in
good condition, and used in an on-going manner with at least 120
concurrent hours of digitally recorded documentation in a format
approved by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The cameras
shall be in use 24 hours per day, seven days per week. The areas to be
covered by the security cameras include, but are not limited to, the
storage areas, transportation areas, all doors and windows, and any
other areas as determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee. Remote log-in information shall be provided to the City
Manager, the City Manager’s designee, the Code Enforcement Manager, and
law enforcement to allow them to view the security camera images and
recordings from their own facilities at any time. Any disruption in
security camera images shall be cured expeditiously.

            2.   The cannabis transportation facility shall be secured
with an alarm system that is operated and monitored by a reputable
security company.

            3.   Entrance to the transportation area, and all storage
areas, shall be locked at all times, and under the control of the
adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation facility’s staff.

            4.   The entrances and all window areas shall be illuminated
during evening hours. The facility shall comply with the City’s lighting
standards regarding fixture type, wattage, illumination levels,
shielding, etcetera, and shall secure the necessary lighting approvals
and permits as needed.

            5.   All windows on the building that houses the cannabis
transportation facility shall be appropriately secured and all cannabis
securely stored.

         Y.   Recordings made by the security cameras shall be made
available to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or law
enforcement upon verbal request. No search warrant or subpoena shall be
needed to view the recorded materials.

         Z.   The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall have the right to enter the adult-use and/or
cannabis transportation facility for the purpose of making reasonable
inspections to observe and enforce compliance with this Section and all
laws of the City and the State. The City Manager, the City Manager’s
designee, or the Code Enforcement Manager shall maintain a log tracking
the time and date of all inspections, the individuals requesting the
inspection, and the result of each inspection. Individuals participating
in any such inspection must take precautions and comply with standard
safeguards and procedures in place at the facility regarding security,
clean room/clean area access and anti-contamination measures.

         AA.   A Transportation Permittee shall only transport
adult-uses and/or medical cannabis between the business locations of
Medical Cannabis Permittees.

         BB.   A Transportation Permittee shall inspect all cannabis and
cannabis products received for quality assurance prior to transporting
to any Cannabis Permittee.

         CC.   A Transportation Permittee shall transport batches of
cultivated cannabis and cannabis products to dispensaries only after
those batches have been inspected and quality tested by a qualified
third party testing facility as required by the MAUCRSA, Business and
Professions Code section 26100, the Department of Food and Agriculture
regulations, and the State Department of Public Health regulations.

         DD.   Each Transportation Permittee shall register with the
City every Physical Location the Transportation Permittee owns or
operates within the City.

         EE.   A Transportation Permittee shall identify in its
application for a Transportation Permit every Physical Location the
Transportation Permittee owns or operates throughout the State.

         FF.   Transport Vehicles. Transportation of cannabis by means
of aircraft, watercraft, drones, rail, human powered vehicles, and
unmanned vehicles is prohibited. Transportation of cannabis shall only
occur inside of a Transport Vehicle. Transportation of cannabis shall
not be visible or identifiable from outside a Transport Vehicle.
Cannabis goods shall be locked in a box that is secured to the inside of
a Transport Vehicle. While left unattended, a Transport Vehicle shall be
locked and secured. A Transportation Permittee shall not leave a
Transport Vehicle carrying medical cannabis goods unattended at any time
or parked overnight. Each Transport Vehicle shall be equipped with, and
utilize, a vehicle alarm system. Each Transport Vehicle shall have an
internal partition between the driver and all passengers from the
cannabis storage containers that prevents access by the driver and
passengers to all cannabis products from inside the Transport Vehicle. A
Transport Vehicle shall not carry more cannabis than allowed by State
law.

         GG.   A Transportation Permittee shall only travel to and from
the business of another Cannabis Permittee when engaged in the
transportation of adult-use and/or medical cannabis or medical cannabis
products.

         HH.   A Transportation Permittee may transport multiple
shipments of adult-use and/or medical cannabis or medical cannabis
products at once in accordance with State law and the requirements of
this Section.

         II.   Packages or containers containing adult-use and/or
medical cannabis or adult-use and/or medical cannabis products shall not
be tampered with during transport.

         JJ.   During Transport, only a Transportation Permittee shall
be allowed inside of a Transport Vehicle. No person under the age of 21
years old shall be allowed inside of a Transport Vehicle at any time.

         KK.   Storage of Cannabis. A Transportation Permittee may store
adult- use and/or medical cannabis and adult-use and/or medical cannabis
products at its transportation facility subject to the following
requirements:

            1.   Cannabis may be stored for a maximum of 72 hours.

            2.   Each batch of cannabis shall be stored separately and
distinctly from every other batch of cannabis.

            3.   Each batch of stored cannabis shall have a label
attached thereto that includes at least the following information: the
Transportation Permittee’s name and Transportation Permit number; the
date of entry into the Transportation Permittee’s storage area; the
unique identifiers and batch number associated with the batch;
description of the cannabis product with enough detail to easily
identify the batch; and the weight of the batch, or quantity of units in
the batch.

            4.   Each batch of cannabis or cannabis products shall be
stored in a building that is designed to permit control of temperature
and humidity, and also prevents the entry of environmental contaminants
such as smoke or dust. The storage area shall not be exposed to direct
sunlight. Employee breakrooms, changing facilities, and bathrooms shall
be completely separated from each storage area.

            5.   Cannabis shall not be stored outdoors.

         LL.   Shipment Manifest. Before transporting any cannabis
goods, each Transportation Permittee shall complete an electronic
shipment manifest (“Shipment Manifest”). Every Shipment Manifest shall
be maintained for three years from the date created and shall be open to
inspection by the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, Code
Enforcement, and law enforcement. The Shipment Manifest shall include at
least the following information:

            1.   The Transportation Permittee’s name.

            2.   The names of authorized drivers.

            3.   The type, weight, and quantity or amount of adult-use
and/or medical cannabis or adult-use and/or medical cannabis products
being transported.

            4.   The time and location of departure, as well as the time
and location of expected arrival.

            5.   The make, model, and license plate number of the
Transport Vehicle.

         MM.   During transport, each Transport Vehicle driver shall
carry a copy of the Transportation Permit, a copy of the Shipment
Manifest, a form of government-issued identification, a valid commercial
driver’s license, and all other information required by State law. The
driver shall present these documents upon the request of law
enforcement, Code Enforcement, the City Manager, or the City Manager’s
designee.

         NN.   Each Transportation Permittee shall do regular monthly
inventories, and shall record the total quantity of cannabis
transported. These records shall be maintained for three years from the
date created and shall be open to inspection by the City Manager, the
City Manager’s Designee, Code Enforcement, and law enforcement.

         OO.   Each Transportation Permittee shall maintain maintenance
and ownership records for every Transport Vehicle. These records shall
be open to inspection by the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee,
Code Enforcement, and law enforcement.

      (2)   Transportation Permit Applications. All applicants wishing
to obtain a Transportation Permit from the City shall file an
application with the City upon a form provided by the City and shall pay
a Transportation Permit Application Fee as established by the City. An
application for a Transportation Permit shall include at least the
following information:

         A.   The address of the applicant’s headquarters.

         B.   The names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of
all potential employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties
for the proposed transportation activities. Relevant criminal histories
shall include any drug-related or felony convictions, the nature of such
offenses, and the sentences received for such convictions.

         C.   Evidence that the applicant has identified every Physical
Location the applicant owns or operates throughout the State.

         D.   Information regarding Transport Vehicles including, but
not limited to: proof of ownership or lease of each Transport Vehicle;
the year, make, model, license plate number, and Vehicle Identification
Number (“VIN”) for each Transport Vehicle; and proof of insurance in the
amount of $1,000,000 for each Transport Vehicle. Transportation
Permittees shall provide the City with the information required by this
Subsection of any new Transport Vehicle prior to using the Transport
Vehicle to transport cannabis goods. A Transportation Permittee shall
provide the City with any changes to the information required by this
Subsection in writing within 30 calendar days of such change.

         E.   Authorization for the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee to seek verification of the information contained within the
application.

         F.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in
the application is true and correct.

         G.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee to
administer this Section.

         H.   An application for a Transportation Permit involving a
Physical Location shall also include at least the following information:

            1.   An estimate of the size of the proposed adult-use
and/or medical cannabis transportation facility.

            2.   The address of the location for which the
Transportation Permit is sought. A site plan and floor plan for the
proposed premises denoting the use of all areas on the premises,
including storage, transportation areas, lighting, signage, etcetera.

            3.   A proposed security plan in compliance with the
Adult-Use and Medical Cannabis Transportation Standards.

            4.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the
real property upon which the adult-use and/or medical cannabis
transportation activity is proposed to be conducted. In the event the
applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the application must
be accompanied with a notarized acknowledgement from the owner of the
property that an adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation
facility will be operated on the property.

            5.   Evidence that the adult-use and/or medical cannabis
transportation facility will be located in a legal structure that is
compliant with all applicable State and local laws.

            6.   Evidence that the applicant has registered with the
City every Physical Location the applicant owns or operates within the
City.

         I.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall
conduct a background check of any applicant seeking a Transportation
Permit, including all potential employees and any person who may be a
facility manager or otherwise responsible for the proposed
transportation activities (“Applicant’s Agents”), and shall prepare a
report on the acceptability of the applicant and the Applicant’s Agents
and the suitability of the proposed Physical Location, if any.

         J.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall rank
all qualified applications in order of those that best satisfy the
requirements of this Section and provide the highest level of service
and opportunities for residents of the City based on the requirements of
this Section and the following criteria (“Merit List”):

            1.   The operational plan for the transportation activities.

            2.   The security plan for the transportation activities.

            3.   The experience of the operators of the transportation
activities.

            4.   The adequacy of capitalization for the Physical
Location, if any, and its operations.

            5.   The employment of City residents and other public
benefits to the City.

      (3)   Transportation Permit. The following conditions apply to
Transportation Permits:

         A.   A Transportation Permit will not be awarded to an
applicant if:

            1.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents made one or
more false or misleading statements or omissions in the application or
during the application process.

            2.   The proposed adult-use and/or medical cannabis
transportation activity or Physical Location, if any, is not allowed by
State or local law.

            3.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have been
convicted of a felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or
the illegal use, possession, distribution, transportation, or any such
similar activity related to controlled substances, with the exception of
cannabis related offenses for which the conviction occurred prior to
passage of Compassionate Use Act. A conviction within the meaning of
this Section means a plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following
a plea of nolo contendere.

            4.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have engaged in
unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive business acts or practices.

            5.   The applicant has not satisfied each and every
requirement of this Section.

         B.   A Transportation Permit shall be awarded by the City to
eligible Transportation Permit applicants in order of the Merit List as
established by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The
number of Transportation Permits shall be limited to those that may be
reasonably accommodated within the City’s Cannabis Overlay Zones as
determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.

         C.   Before a Transportation Permit can be issued to an
applicant, Transportation Permit fees must be paid to offset all related
costs to the City, and the proposed Physical Location, if any, must pass
all applicable inspections.

         D.   Each Transportation Permit involving a Physical Location
is subject to the conditions of approval in the applicable CUP for the
parcel of real property upon which the adult-use and/or medical cannabis
transportation activity occurs.

         E.   Each Transportation Permit is subject to any additional
conditions that may be applied by the City at the time of issuance or
renewal as necessary to properly regulate the cannabis transportation
activities and to protect the public.

         F.   All transportation activities shall be subject to the
City’s Cannabis Excise Tax provided in AMC Chapter 3.60.

         G.   Each Transportation Permittee shall enter into an
agreement with the City to fully reimburse the City for all fiscal
impacts, costs, expenses, fees, and attorneys’ fees incurred by the City
related to the Transportation Permit and the cannabis transportation
activity.

         H.   Transportation Permittees who are in good standing with
the City and who were previously authorized to engage in medical
cannabis transportation, may request an abbreviated application for a
permit to engage in adult-use cannabis transportation within the same
transportation facility, and they may operate under both permits in the
same space, subject to state and local laws. The abbreviated permit
process will allow Transportation Permittees to submit certain
previously approved application materials for their adult-use
Transportation Permit. The City reserves the right to request the
Transportation Permittee to submit a new Transportation Permit
application if the resubmitted materials do not satisfy the City’s
Transportation Permit requirements. The City Manager will determine the
appropriate fees for the adult-use permit, and the City Manager shall
issue the adult-use permits on an expedited basis based on the prior
applications and approvals.

         I.   Each Transportation Permittee shall:

            1.   Carry liability insurance in the amounts and types
provided in this Section or set by the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee, and name the City as an additional insured on all
such insurance policies.

            2.   Execute an Indemnification Agreement prepared by the
City that fully indemnifies the City for all liabilities associated with
the Transportation Permit, the Transportation Permittee’s cannabis
related activities, and any action taken by the Transportation Permittee
pursuant to this Section.

            3.   Defend the City, at the Transportation Permittee’s sole
expense, in any action against the City or its agents, officers, or
employees associated with the Transportation Permit, the Transportation
Permittee’s cannabis related activities, or any action taken by the
Transportation Permittee pursuant to this Section. The City may, at its
sole discretion, participate in the defense of any such action, but such
participation shall not relieve the Transportation Permittee of its
indemnification and reimbursement obligations.

            4.   Reimburse the City for all costs, expenses, fees, and
attorney fees incurred by the City related to any action against the
City or its agents, officers, or employees associated with the
Transportation Permit, the Transportation Permittee’s cannabis related
activities, or any action taken by the Transportation Permittee pursuant
to this Section.

         J.   A Transportation Permittee shall keep the City and law
enforcement updated with the names, addresses, and relevant criminal
histories of all employees, facility managers, and other relevant
parties for the adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation
activities at all times. Relevant criminal histories shall include any
drug-related or felony convictions, the nature of such offenses, and the
sentences received for such convictions.

         K.   A Transportation Permittee shall account for job creation
in the City and shall commit to employing a workforce that resides in
the City. For Transportation Permittees with a Physical Location, a
minimum of 50% of all employees employed by the Transportation Permittee
at the Physical Location shall be residents of the City. A
Transportation Permittee shall use good faith efforts to comply with
this Subsection and shall report the residential composition of its
workforce to the City every year and at any other time upon demand by
the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.

         L.   A Transportation Permit issued pursuant to this Section
may be transferred so long as the Permittee satisfies the City’s
Transportation Permit application requirements and is in good standing
with the city under the following circumstances:

            1.   The transfer results from the existing Permittee
changing the corporation type or business type on file with the
California Secretary of State,

            2.   The transfer is necessary to reflect the death or
disability of an owner and/or the person on file with the City as being
responsible for the permitted operations, or

            3.   To reflect a bona-fide transfer of the permit as part
of a transfer of the permitted operation.

            All Transportation Permit transfers are subject to the City
Manager’s or his or her designee’s prior approval, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld.

         M.   A Transportation Permit shall expire and be null and void
12 months after issuance to the Transportation Permittee unless properly
renewed. Upon payment of the applicable Transportation Permit fees, and
passing the requisite Transportation Permit inspections, a
Transportation Permittee that has maintained compliance with all City,
State, and other applicable cannabis and business related laws shall be
entitled to renew its Transportation Permit subject to all prevailing
laws at the time of renewal.

         N.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not
assume any liability, and expressly does not waive sovereign immunity,
with respect to any cannabis transportation activities, or for the
activities of any Transportation Permittee.

      (4)   Conditional Use Permit. All parcels of real property within
the City’s Cannabis Overlay Zones, upon which cannabis transportation
activities may occur, must obtain a CUP from the City for all such
activities.

   (e)   Enforcement.

      (1)   Any cannabis transportation within the City in violation of
this Section is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.

      (2)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Section, or who
owns, possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property
in the City upon which a violation of this Section is maintained, shall
be subject to the penalties and remedies provided by this Section.

      (3)   Any violation of this Section shall constitute a separate
offense for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.

      (4)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up
to $ 1,000 and up to six months imprisonment per offense per day.

      (5)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section
shall be punishable by an administrative fine of up to a $1,000 per
offense per day.

      (6)   Any violation of this Section or any other City or State
cannabis law by a Transportation Permittee, or a Transportation
Permittee’s agent, is grounds for revoking the relevant Transportation
Permit. In addition, the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may
revoke a Transportation Permit if any of the following occur subject to
a reasonable opportunity for the permittee to cure the deficiency during
a period of no more than 30 days:

         A.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee determines
that the Transportation Permittee has failed to comply with this
Section, any condition of approval, or any agreement or covenant as
required pursuant to this Section.

         B.   The adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation
operations cease for more than 90 calendar days.

      (7)   For Transportation Permits involving a Physical Location,
the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may also revoke the
Transportation Permit if any of the following occur:

         A.   Ownership of the Physical Location is changed or
transferred to a third party, without prior City approval.

         B.   The Physical Location fails to maintain 120 hours of
security recordings.

         C.   The Physical Location fails to provide remote access to
the security cameras to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee,
the Code Enforcement Manager, or law enforcement, or fails to allow
inspection of the security recordings, the activity logs, or of the
premises by authorized City officials.

      (8)   Any decision regarding the revocation of a Transportation
Permit may be appealed to an independent neutral third party
administrative hearing officer appointed by the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee (“Hearing Officer”). Said appeal shall be made by a
notice of appeal from the person appealing within 15 days from the date
of the decision to revoke the Transportation Permit. The appeal shall be
accompanied by a written verified declaration setting forth the basis
for the claim that the Transportation Permit was improperly revoked. The
Hearing Officer’s decision shall be final and binding upon the City and
the appellant.

      (9)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition
to any other penalties and remedies available to the City.

[Ord. No. 573, Section 3, 7/12/17; Ord. No. 588, Section 6, 5/23/18;
Ord. No. 602, Sections 12 - 15, 6/12/19.]

17.80.110 Cannabis Testing

   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to regulate
the testing of adult- use and medical cannabis prior to manufacturing or
dispensing to the public in accordance with State law in order to
promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the residents
and businesses within the City. The City intends to be on the forefront
of adult-use and medical cannabis research and testing. The City is
authorized to regulate this activity pursuant to the MAUCRSA.

   (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

      (1)   “Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa
Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted
from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant; and every compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its
seeds, or resin. “Cannabis” also means the separated resin, whether
crude or purified, obtained from cannabis. “Cannabis” does not include
the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or
cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except
the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized
seed of the plant which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of
this division, “cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by
Section 11018.5 of the Health and Safety Code.

      (2)   “City” means the City of Adelanto, California.

      (3)   “City Manager” means the individual duly appointed by a
majority of the City Council to serve in the capacity as executive
officer of the City on a permanent or interim basis.

      (4)   “CUP” means a Conditional Use Permit issued by the City in
accordance with this Code.

      (5)   “Fully enclosed and secure structure” means a space within a
building, greenhouse or other structure which has a complete roof
enclosure supported by connecting walls extending from the ground to the
roof, which is secure against unauthorized entry, provides complete
visual screening, and which is accessible only through one or more
lockable doors and is inaccessible to minors.

      (6)   “MAUCRSA” means the Medicinal and Adult-use Cannabis
Regulation and Safety Act (MAUCRSA). (Bus. & Prof. Code, section 26000
et seq.)

      (7)   “Medicinal cannabis” or “medicinal cannabis product” means
cannabis or a cannabis product, respectively, intended to be sold for
use pursuant to the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215),
found at Section 11362.5 of the Health and Safety Code and other
applicable State laws, by a medicinal cannabis patient in California who
possesses a physician’s recommendation. For purposes of this definition,
“medical cannabis” also means “medical marijuana.” “Cannabis permittee”
means a person or entity that has been issued a permit by the City, or
another city in the State of California in accordance with the MAUCRSA
or other applicable State laws, to participate in a commercial adult-use
and/or medical cannabis activity, such as cultivation, manufacturing,
distribution, transportation, testing, dispensing, or delivering.

      (8)   “Testing,” “Testing Facility” and “Testing laboratory” means
a laboratory, facility, or entity in the state that offers or performs
tests of cannabis or cannabis products and that is both of the
following:

         A.   Accredited by an accrediting body that is independent from
all other person involved in commercial cannabis activity in the state.

         B.   Licensed by the bureau.

      (9)   “Testing Permit” means a City permit to test the quality of
adult-use and/or medical cannabis produced by cultivation and
manufacturing Permittees pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
Section and the conditions of approval for the permit.

      (10)   “Testing Permittee” means an applicant who has applied for
and has been issued a Testing Permit by the City pursuant to the terms
and conditions of this Section.

   (c)   Cannabis Testing Prohibited. All commercial cannabis testing
within the City is prohibited except as expressly permitted by this
Section.

   (d)   Cannabis Testing Conditionally Permitted. Commercial medical
cannabis testing is conditionally permitted in the City only as
expressly specified in this Section.

      (1)   Cannabis Testing Standards. Commercial cannabis testing,
within the City, shall be in conformance with the following standards:

         A.   Commercial cannabis testing shall only be allowed upon
application and approval of a Testing Permit and a CUP, or Minor
Conditional Use Permit (CUPm) for proposed uses within existing
buildings requiring no more than Tenant Improvements, in accordance with
the criteria and process set forth in this Section and this Code.

         B.   Commercial cannabis testing is a conditionally permitted
use only on properties within the City’s Cannabis Overlay Zones.

         C.   No commercial cannabis testing facility shall be
established, developed, or operated within 600 feet of a school, public
playground or park, child care or day care facility, youth center, or
church. All distances shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point of the building
or structure in which the commercial cannabis testing is, or will be,
located to the nearest property line of those uses described in this
Subsection.

         D.   A commercial cannabis testing facility may not be located
within the same unit as an indoor cannabis cultivation facility,
manufacturing facility, distribution facility, transportation facility,
or dispensary.

         E.   Subject to the further requirements of this Section, only
Type 8 State testing licenses, as specified in the MAUCRSA and Business
and Professions Code section 26050, will be allowed to operate in the
City.

         F.   Commercial cannabis testing is allowed only within fully
enclosed and secure structures that are inaccessible to minors.

         G.   Commercial cannabis testing shall not exceed the square
footage authorized pursuant to the applicable CUP.

         H   From any public right-of-way, there shall be no visible
exterior evidence of any cannabis testing activity.

         I.   Cannabis testing shall not adversely affect the health or
safety of the nearby residents by creating dust, glare, heat, noise,
smoke, traffic, vibration, or other impacts, and shall not be hazardous
due to use or storage of materials, processes, products, or wastes.

         J.    Each commercial cannabis testing facility shall fully
comply with all of the applicable restrictions and mandates set forth in
State law. A commercial cannabis testing facility shall comply with all
size requirements for such facility as imposed by State law. A cannabis
testing facility shall not engage in any activities not allowed by a
cannabis testing facility pursuant to State law. A cannabis testing
facility shall comply with all horticultural, labeling, processing, and
other standards required by State law.

         K.   There is no set restriction on the hours of operation of a
commercial cannabis testing facility; however, restricted hours of
operation may be established as a condition of approval of the Testing
Permit or the applicable CUP.

         L.   All cannabis shall be kept in a secured manner during all
business and nonbusiness hours.

         M.   A cannabis testing facility shall operate within a legal
structure that is compliant with all applicable State and local laws.

         N.   A cannabis testing facility must pay all applicable sales
taxes pursuant to all federal, State, and local laws.

         O.   On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis or
alcohol shall be prohibited on the premises of a cannabis testing
facility. The term “premises” as used in this Subsection includes the
actual cannabis testing building, as well as any accessory structures
and parking areas. The cannabis testing facility building entrance shall
be clearly and legibly posted with a notice indicating that smoking,
ingesting, or consuming cannabis or alcohol on the premises or in the
vicinity of the facility is prohibited.

         P.   Signage for a cannabis testing facility shall be limited
to name of business only, shall be in compliance with the City’s sign
code, and shall contain no advertising of any companies, brands,
products, goods, or services. Signage shall not include any drug-related
symbols.

         Q.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, stored,
distributed, or consumed on the premises. A cannabis testing facility
shall not hold or maintain a license from the State Department of
Alcohol Beverage Control to sell alcoholic beverages, or operate a
business that sells alcoholic beverages. In addition, alcoholic
beverages shall not be provided, stored, kept, located, sold, dispensed,
or used on the premises of any cannabis testing facility.

         R.   Physician services shall not be provided on the cannabis
testing facility premises.

         S.   The building in which any cannabis testing facility is
located, as well as the operations as conducted therein, shall fully
comply with all applicable rules, regulations, and laws including, but
not limited to, zoning and building codes, the City’s business license
ordinances, the Revenue and Taxation Code, the Americans with
Disabilities Act, and the MAUCRSA. Compliance with all requirements of
State law pertaining to cannabis testing is also required.

         T.   A cannabis testing facility shall not grow, cultivate,
process, distribute, transport, sell, dispense, or administer cannabis
from the facility to the public. A cannabis testing facility shall not
be operated as a cannabis dispensary.

         U.   The operators of a cannabis testing facility shall provide
the City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, with the name, phone
number, facsimile number, and email address of an on-site representative
to whom the City and the public can provide notice if there are any
operational problems associated with the cannabis testing facility. A
cannabis testing facility shall make every good faith effort to
encourage residents and the public to call this representative to
resolve any operational problems before any calls or complaints are made
to the City or law enforcement.

         V.   Each cannabis testing facility shall be operated in
accordance with the conditions of approval associated with the
applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon which the cannabis
testing activities occur.

         W.   Each cannabis testing facility shall have a security plan
including the following measures:

            1.   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in
good condition, and used in an on-going manner with at least 120
concurrent hours of digitally recorded documentation in a format
approved by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The cameras
shall be in use 24 hours per day, seven days per week. The areas to be
covered by the security cameras include, but are not limited to, the
storage areas, testing areas, all doors and windows, and any other areas
as determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. Remote
log-in information shall be provided to the City Manager, the City
Manager’s designee, the Code Enforcement Manager, and law enforcement to
allow them to view the security camera images and recordings from their
own facilities at any time. Any disruption in security camera images
shall be cured expeditiously.

            2.   The cannabis testing facility shall be secured with an
alarm system that is operated and monitored by a reputable security
company.

            3.   Entrance to the cannabis testing area, and all storage
areas, shall be locked at all times, and under the control of the
cannabis testing facility’s staff.

            4.   The entrances, and all window areas, shall be
illuminated during evening hours. The cannabis testing facility shall
comply with the City’s lighting standards regarding fixture type,
wattage, illumination levels, shielding, etcetera, and shall secure the
necessary lighting approvals and permits as needed.

            5.   All windows on the building that houses the cannabis
testing facility shall be appropriately secured and all cannabis
securely stored.

         X.   Recordings made by the security cameras shall be made
available to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or law
enforcement upon verbal request-no search warrant or subpoena shall be
needed to view the recorded materials.

         Y.   The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall have the right to enter the adult-use and/or
cannabis testing facility for the purpose of making reasonable
inspections to observe and enforce compliance with this Section and all
laws of the City and the State. The City Manager, the City Manager’s
designee, or the Code Enforcement Manager shall maintain a log tracking
the time and date of all inspections, the individuals requesting the
inspection, and the result of each inspection. Individuals participating
in such an inspection must take precautions and comply with standard
safeguards and procedures in place at the facility regarding security,
clean room/clean area access and anti-contamination measures.

         Z.   Each cannabis testing facility must employ full time
quality control personnel.

         AA.   All cultivated cannabis, and manufactured cannabis
products, must be properly tested prior to being dispensed to the public
as required by the MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section 26100,
and the State Department of Public Health regulations.

         BB.   Each Testing Permittee shall be independent from all
other persons and entities involved in the cannabis industry including,
but not limited to, cannabis cultivators, manufacturers, distributors,
transporters, and dispensaries.

         CC.   A cannabis testing facility shall not acquire or receive
cannabis or cannabis products except from a Cannabis Permittee. A
Testing Permittee shall not cultivate, manufacture, distribute,
transport, deliver, or dispense cannabis or cannabis products.

         DD.   A cannabis testing facility must adopt a standard
operating procedure using methods consistent with general requirements
for the competence of testing and calibration activities, including
sampling. A Testing Permittee must use testing standards and methods
established specifically for cannabis testing by the State.

         EE.   A cannabis testing facility must establish standard
operating procedures that provide for adequate chain of custody controls
for samples transferred to the cannabis testing facility for testing.

         FF.   A Testing Permittee must obtain testing samples according
to a statistically valid sampling method. All testing samples must be
picked independently and at random by the Testing Permittee. Testing
samples cannot be pre-selected by outside persons or entities involved
in the cultivation, manufacturing, distribution, transportation,
delivery, or dispensing of cannabis.

         GG.   Cannabis from dried flower must, at minimum, be tested
for concentration, pesticides, mold, and other contaminants. Cannabis
extracts must, at minimum, be tested for concentration and purity of the
product.

         HH.   A cannabis testing facility must analyze samples
according to either the most current version of the cannabis
inflorescence monograph (“Monograph”) published by the American Herbal
Pharmacopoeia or other scientifically valid methodology that is equal or
superior to the Monograph.

         II.   If a test result falls outside the specifications
authorized by law or regulation, the cannabis testing facility shall
follow a standard operating procedure to confirm or refute the original
result.

         JJ.   A cannabis testing facility must destroy the remains of
any sample of cannabis or cannabis product upon completion of the
testing analysis.

         KK.   A cannabis testing facility must destroy cannabis batches
whose testing samples indicate noncompliance with health and safety
standards promulgated by the State Department of Public Health, unless
remedial measures can bring the cannabis into compliance.

         LL.   A Testing Permittee shall issue a certificate of analysis
for each sample tested to report whether the chemical profile of the
sample conforms to the specifications for the sample for compounds.
Compounds tested include, but are not limited to, the compounds listed
under Business and Professions Code section 26100.

         MM.   A Testing Permittee shall issue a certificate of analysis
for each sample tested to report whether the presence of contaminants in
the sample does or does not exceed the levels that are the lesser of
either the most current version of the Monograph or those set by the
State Department of Public Health. Contaminants tested include, but are
not limited to, the contaminants listed under Business and Professions
Code section 26100.

         NN.   Each cannabis testing facility must analyze whether
residual levels of volatile organic compounds in each sample tested are
below the lesser of either the specifications set by the United States
Pharmacopeia (U.S.P. Chapter 467) or those set by the State Department
of Public Health.

         OO.   All testing devises used by a cannabis testing facility
must be UL listed, or otherwise approved for the intended use by the
City’s Building Official or the Fire Department. Any testing devices
using only non-pressurized water are exempt from such approval.

         PP.   Unless otherwise prohibited, all testing devices used by
a cannabis testing facility that utilize hydrocarbons or otherwise
flammable solvents must operate in a closed loop, or in such a way that
all solvent material is recovered in the process. All hazardous material
must be disposed of in a manner that is compliant with all local, State,
and federal guidelines for the disposal of hazardous materials.

         QQ.   Each cannabis testing facility must notify the State
Department of Public Health and the City Manager, or the City Manager’s
designee, within one business day after the receipt of notice of any
kind that its accreditation has been denied, suspended, or revoked.

      (2)   Testing Permit Applications. All applicants wishing to
obtain a Testing Permit from the City shall file an application with the
City upon a form provided by the City and shall pay a Testing Permit
Application Fee as established by the City. An application for a Testing
Permit shall include at least the following information:

         A.   An estimate of the size of the proposed cannabis testing
facility.

         B.   The address of the location for which the Testing Permit
is sought. Only one Testing Permit will be issued per location.

         C.   A site plan and floor plan for the proposed premises
denoting the use of all areas on the premises, including storage,
testing areas, lighting, signage, et cetera.

         D.   A proposed security plan in compliance with the Cannabis
Testing Standards.

         E.   The names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of
all potential employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties
for the cannabis testing facility. Relevant criminal histories shall
include any drug-related or felony convictions, the nature of such
offenses, and the sentences received for such convictions.

         F.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real
property upon which the cannabis testing activity is proposed to be
conducted. In the event the applicant is not the legal owner of the
property, the application must be accompanied with a notarized
acknowledgement from the owner of the property that a cannabis testing
facility will be operated on the property.

         G.   Evidence that the cannabis testing facility is independent
from all other persons and entities involved in the cannabis industry,
as required by Business and Professions Code section 26001.

         H.   Evidence that the cannabis testing facility follows the
methodologies, ranges, and parameters that are contained in the scope of
the accreditation for testing cannabis and cannabis products. The
cannabis testing facility shall also comply with any other requirements
specified by the State Department of Public Health.

         I.   Authorization for the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee to seek verification of the information contained within the
application.

         J.   Evidence that the cannabis testing facility will be
located in a legal structure that is compliant with all applicable State
and local laws.

         K.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in
the application is true and correct.

         L.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee to
administer this Section.

         M.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall
conduct a background check of any applicant seeking a Testing Permit,
including all potential employees and any person who may be a facility
manager or otherwise responsible for the activities of the cannabis
testing facility (“Applicant’s Agents”), and shall prepare a report on
the acceptability of the applicant and the Applicant’s Agents and the
suitability of the proposed location.

         N.   The City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, shall
rank all qualified applications in order of those that best satisfy the
requirements of this Section and provide the highest level of service
and opportunities for residents of the City based on the requirements of
this Section and the following criteria (“Merit List”):

            1.   The operational plan for the facility.

            2.   The security plan for the facility.

            3.   The experience of the operators of the facility.

            4.   The adequacy of capitalization for the facility and its
operations.

            5.   The employment of City residents and other public
benefits to the City.

      (3)   Testing Permit. The following conditions apply to each
Testing Permit:

         A.   A Testing Permit will not be awarded to an applicant if:

            1.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents made one or
more false or misleading statements or omissions in the application or
during the application process.

            2.   The proposed cannabis testing facility is not allowed
by State or local law.

            3.   The applicant is not a legal representative of the
cannabis testing facility.

            4.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have been
convicted of a felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or
the illegal use, possession, distribution, transportation, or any such
similar activity related to controlled substances, with the exception of
cannabis related offenses for which the conviction occurred prior to
passage of Compassionate Use Act. A conviction within the meaning of
this Section means a plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following
a plea of nolo contendere.

            5.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have engaged in
unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive business acts or practices.

            6.   The applicant has not satisfied each and every
requirement of this Section.

         B.   A Testing Permit shall be awarded by the City to eligible
Testing Permit applicants in order of the Merit List as established by
the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The number of Testing
Permits shall be limited to those that may be reasonably accommodated
within the Testing Zone as determined by the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee.

         C.   Before a Testing Permit can be issued to an applicant,
Testing Permit fees must be paid to offset all related costs to the
City, and the proposedcannabis testing facility location must pass all
applicable inspections.

         D.   A Testing Permit is subject to the conditions of approval
in the applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon which the
cannabis testing activity occurs.

         E.   A Testing Permit is subject to any additional conditions
that may be applied by the City at the time of issuance or renewal as
necessary to properly regulate the cannabis testing activity and to
protect the public.

         F.   All cannabis testing activities shall be subject to an
excise tax to be established by the City and the voters.

         G.   A Testing Permittee may not hold or use any other cannabis
activity permits or licenses that would otherwise be a violation of this
Section, the MAUCRSA, or Business and Professions Code section 26050.

         H.   A Testing Permittee may not own or have an ownership
interest in any activity or facility related to cannabis cultivation,
manufacturing, distribution, transportation, delivery, or dispensing.

         I.   A Testing Permittee shall enter into an agreement with the
City to fully reimburse the City for all fiscal impacts, costs,
expenses, fees, and attorneys’ fees incurred by the City related to the
Testing Permit and the cannabis testing activity.

         J.   Testing Permittees who are in good standing with the City
and who were previously authorized to engage in medical cannabis
testing, may request an abbreviated application for a permit to engage
in adult-use cannabis testing within the same testing facility, and they
may operate under both permits in the same space, subject to state and
local laws. The abbreviated permit process will allow Testing Permittees
to submit certain previously approved application materials for their
adult-use Testing Permit. The City reserves the right to request the
Testing Permittee to submit a new Testing Permit application if the
resubmitted materials do not satisfy the City’s Testing Permit
requirements. The City Manager will determine the appropriate fees for
the adult-use permit, and the City Manager shall issue the adult-use
permits on an expedited basis based on the prior applications and
approvals.

         K.   A Testing Permittee shall:

            1.   Carry liability insurance in the amounts and types set
by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee, and name the City as
an additional insured on all such insurance policies.

            2.   Execute an Indemnification Agreement prepared by the
City that fully indemnifies the City for all liabilities associated with
the Testing Permit, the Testing Permittee’s cannabis related activities,
and any action taken by the Testing Permittee pursuant to this Section.

            3.   Defend the City, at the Testing Permittee’s sole
expense, in any action against the City or its agents, officers, or
employees associated with the Testing Permit, the Testing Permittee’s
cannabis related activities, or any action taken by the Testing
Permittee pursuant to this Section. The City may, at its sole
discretion, participate in the defense of any such action, but such
participation shall not relieve the Testing Permittee of its
indemnification and reimbursement obligations.

            4.   Reimburse the City for all costs, expenses, fees, and
attorney fees incurred by the City related to any action against the
City or its agents, officers, or employees associated with the Testing
Permit, the Testing Permittee’s cannabis related activities, or any
action taken by the Testing Permittee pursuant to this Section.

         L.   Each Testing Permittee shall keep the City and law
enforcement updated with the names, addresses, and relevant criminal
histories of all employees, facility managers, and other relevant
parties for the cannabis testing facility at all times. Relevant
criminal histories shall include any drug-related or felony convictions,
the nature of such offenses, and the sentences received for such
convictions.

         M.   Each Testing Permittee shall account for job creation in
the City and shall commit to employing a workforce that resides in the
City. A minimum of 50% of all employees employed by the Testing
Permittee at the cannabis testing facility shall be residents of the
City. A Testing Permittee shall use good faith efforts to comply with
this subsection and shall report the residential composition of its
workforce to the City every year and at any other time upon demand by
the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.

         N.   A Testing Permit issued pursuant to this Section may be
transferred so long as the Permittee satisfies the City’s Testing Permit
application requirements and is in good standing with the city under the
following circumstances:

            1.   The transfer results from the existing Permittee
changing the corporation type or business type on file with the
California Secretary of State,

            2.   The transfer is necessary to reflect the death or
disability of an owner and/or the person on file with the City as being
responsible for the permitted operations, or

            3.   To reflect a bona-fide transfer of the permit as a part
of a transfer of the permitted operation.

         O.   All Testing Permit transfers are subject to the City
Manager’s or his or her designee’s prior approval, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld. A Testing Permit shall expire and be null and
void 12 months after issuance to the Testing Permittee unless properly
renewed. Upon payment of the applicable Testing Permit fees and passing
the requisite Testing Permit inspections, a Testing Permittee that has
maintained compliance with all City, State and other applicable
adult-use and/or medical cannabis and business related laws shall be
entitled to renew its Testing Permit subject to all prevailing laws at
the time of renewal.

         P.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not
assume any liability, and expressly does not waive sovereign immunity,
with respect to any cannabis testing activities or for the activities of
any cannabis testing facility.

      (4)   Conditional Use Permit. All parcels of real property in the
Testing Zone upon which cannabis testing activities may occur must
obtain a CUP from the City for all such activities.

   (e)   Enforcement.

      (1)   Any cannabis testing within the City in violation of this
Section is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.

      (2)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Section, or who
owns, possess, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property in
the City upon which a violation of the Section is maintained, shall be
subject to the penalties and remedies provided by this Section.

      (3)   Any violation of this Section shall constitute a separate
offense for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.

      (4)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up
to $ 1,000 and up to six months imprisonment per offense.

      (5)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section
shall be punishable by an administrative fine of up to a $1,000 per
offense.

      (6)   Any violation of this Section or any other City or State
cannabis law by a Testing Permittee or a Testing Permittee’s agent is
grounds for revoking the relevant Testing Permit. In addition, the City
Manager or the City Manager’s designee may revoke a Testing Permit if
any of the following occur subject to a reasonable opportunity for the
permittee to cure the deficiency during a period of no more than 30
days:

         A.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee determines
that the cannabis testing facility has failed to comply with this
Section, any condition of approval, or any agreement or covenant as
required pursuant to this Section.

         B.   The cannabis testing operations cease for more than 90
calendar days.

         C.   Ownership of the cannabis testing facility is changed or
transferred to a third party, without prior City approval.

         D.   The cannabis testing facility fails to maintain 120 hours
of security recordings.

         E.   The cannabis testing facility fails to provide remote
access to the security cameras to the City Manager, the City Manager’s
designee, the Code Enforcement Manager, or law enforcement, or fails to
allow inspection of the security recordings, the activity logs, or of
the premises by authorized City officials.

      (7)   Any decision regarding the revocation of a Testing Permit
may be appealed to an independent neutral third party administrative
hearing officer appointed by the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee (“Hearing Officer”). Said appeal shall be made by a notice of
appeal from the person appealing within 15 days from the date of the
decision to revoke the Testing Permit. The appeal shall be accompanied
by a written verified declaration setting forth the basis for the claim
that the Testing Permit was improperly revoked. The Hearing Officer’s
decision shall be final and binding upon the City and the appellant.

      (8)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition
to any other penalties and remedies available to the City.

[Ord. No. 548, Section 3, 10/12/16; Ord. No. 556, Section 5, 12/14/16;
Ord. No. 558, Section 5, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 564, Section 5, 6/28/17;
Ord. No. 588, Section 7, 5/23/18; Ord. No. 602, Sections 16 - 18,
6/12/19.]

17.80.120 Cannabis Retail.

   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to regulate
the retail sale of adult-use and medicinal cannabis in order to promote
the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents and businesses
within the City. The City is authorized to regulate this activity
pursuant to the MAUCRSA.

   (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms in this Section shall have
the same meaning as set forth in MAUCRSA and any rules promulgated
pursuant thereto:

      (1)   “Applicant” or “Applicants” means the individual, entity, or
any of their authorized agents or employees, applying for a Retail
Permit or Conditional Use Permit.

      (2)   “Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa
Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted
from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin.
“Cannabis” also means the separated resin, whether crude or purified,
obtained from cannabis. “Cannabis” does not include the mature stalks of
the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted
therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant
which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this division,
“cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section 11018.5
of the Health and Safety Code.

      (3)   “Cannabis Retail Overlay Zone” means the area bounded by Air
Expressway to the north, Rancho Road to the south, Adelanto Street and
Permain Street and to the west, and Mesa Linda Road to the east
(Cannabis Retail Overlay Zone 1), and the area bounded by Violet Road to
the north, Powerline Road to the south, Jonathan Road to the west, and
Highway 395 to the east. The easterly boundary to Highway 395 is setback
600' from the highway. (Cannabis Retail Overly Zone 2).

      (4)   “CUP” means a Conditional Use Permit issued by the City in
accordance with this Code.

      (5)   “Deliver,” “Delivering,” and “Delivery” shall be defined in
accordance with the MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section
26001, and other applicable State laws.

      (6)   “MAUCRSA” means the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis
Regulation and Safety Act (MAUCRSA). (Bus. & Prof. Code, section 26000
et seq.)

      (7)   “Medicinal cannabis” or “medicinal cannabis product” means
cannabis or a cannabis product, respectively, intended to be sold for
use pursuant to the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215),
found at Section 11362.5 of the Health and Safety Code and other
applicable State laws, by a medicinal cannabis patient in California who
possesses a physician's recommendation. For purposes of this definition,
“medicinal cannabis” also means “medical marijuana.”

      (8)   “Premises” means and pertains to a physical place of
business, building, facility, office, or warehouse owned or operated by
a retail permittee falling within the jurisdiction of the City of
Adelanto.

      (9)   “Retailer” means a person authorized to engage in the retail
sale of cannabis goods to customers.

         A.   “Non-Storefront Retailer” means a retailer that sells
cannabis goods to customers only through delivery and with a Type 9
retail license from the State of California Department of Cannabis
Control.

         B.   “Storefront Retailer” means a retailer that has a physical
location where customers can purchase cannabis goods and with a Type 10
retail license from the State of California Department of Cannabis
Control. A storefront retailer may also deliver Cannabis goods to
customers.

      (10)   “Retail Permit” means a City permit to conduct retail sales
of adult-use and/or medical cannabis in accordance with the terms and
conditions of this Section and the conditions of approval for the
permit. A Retail Permit will be designated as either a Non-Storefront
Retail Permit or a Storefront Retail Permit.

      (11)   “Retail Permittee” means a person or entity that has been
issued a Retail Permit by the City pursuant to the terms and conditions
of this Section.

   (c)   Unauthorized Cannabis Retail Prohibited. The retail sale of
cannabis within the City is prohibited without a valid Conditional Use
Permit and Retail Permit as provided for in this Section.

   (d)   Conditional Use Permit. Retailers are conditionally permitted
in the Cannabis Retail Overlay Zone. The provisions of chapter 17.130 of
this code shall govern applications for a conditional use permit for
cannabis retail sales. An applicant for a cannabis retail conditional
use permit must possess a valid Retail Permit at the time the
conditional use permit is approved.

   (e)   Retail Permit.

      (1)   Cannabis Retail Operating Standards. Cannabis retail within
the City shall be in conformance with the following standards:

         A.   All retail sales of cannabis and cannabis products shall
be in conformance with all applicable State laws and regulations.

         B.   Retailers shall only engage in sales and deliveries
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.

         C.   All cannabis shall be kept in a secured manner during all
business and nonbusiness hours.

         D.   Each retailer shall operate within a legal structure that
is compliant with all applicable State and local laws.

         E.   Each retailer must pay all applicable taxes pursuant to
all federal, State, and local laws. Each retail shall pay the City's
Cannabis Excise Tax provided for retailers in AMC Chapter 3.60.

         F.   On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis or
alcohol is prohibited at all non-storefront retailer premises. The
building entrance shall be clearly and legibly posted with a notice
indicating that smoking, ingesting, or consuming cannabis or alcohol on
the premises, or in the vicinity of the non-storefront retailer, is
prohibited. The term "premises" as used in this Subsection and the
following Subsection includes the cannabis retail building, as well as
any accessory structures and parking areas.

         G.   Smoking, ingestion and consumption of cannabis and
cannabis products may occur on the premises of a storefront retailer if
specifically permitted by the Retail Permit and the CUP for the
premises, and subject to the following regulations.

            1.   Access to the area where cannabis consumption is
allowed must be restricted to persons twenty-one years of age and older.
The dispensary shall be responsible for checking identification and
ensuring that underaged individuals do not enter.

            2.   Cannabis consumption shall not be visible from any
place where persons under the age of twenty-one are permitted.

            3.   Cannabis consumption must occur only within the areas
designated for consumption by the license.

            4.   The cannabis business must install and maintain in good
working order an odor control system. Odors caused by the consumption of
cannabis at the retail premises must not be detectable from any public
place. The cannabis business shall submit and abide by an odor control
plan approved by the city as a part of the retail permit application and
approval process. The plan shall include the use of a Vapor Phase System
utilizing an odor neutralizer, such as Cannabolish or a similarly
effective technology.

            5.   Only cannabis and cannabis products purchased from the
retailer during the same visit by the customer may be consumed within
the retail premises. Individuals may not bring cannabis or cannabis
products into a retailer for the purposes of consumption.

            6.   Cannabis and cannabis products that are only partially
consumed on the premises of the dispensary must be repackaged in
accordance with this Section prior to leaving the retail premises.

            7.   Representatives of the city, including, but not limited
to, law enforcement officers, must be permitted to enter the premises,
including all areas where consumption is allowed, at any time during the
regular business hours of the retailer and/or whenever consumption is
occurring on site.

         H.   Signage for each retailer shall be limited to name of the
business only, shall be in compliance with the City's sign code. Signage
shall not include any drug-related symbols.

         I.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, stored,
distributed, or consumed on the premises. A retailer shall not hold or
maintain a license from the State Department of Alcohol Beverage Control
to sell alcoholic beverages or operate a business that sells alcoholic
beverages. In addition, alcohol shall not be provided, stored, kept,
located, sold, dispensed, or used on the premises of any retailer.

         J.   Physician services and medical cannabis recommendations
shall not be provided at a cannabis retailer premises.

         K.   The building and premises in which any retailer is
located, as well as the operations as conducted therein, shall fully
comply with all applicable rules, regulations, and laws including, but
not limited to, zoning and building codes, the City's business license
ordinances, the Revenue and Taxation Code, the Americans with
Disabilities Act, and the MAUCRSA. Compliance with all requirements of
State law pertaining to adult-use and/or medical cannabis dispensing and
delivery is also required.

         L.   A cannabis retailer shall not grow, cultivate,
manufacture, or process cannabis, unless expressly and affirmatively
authorized by State and local law. A cannabis retailer shall not be
operated as a cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, distribution,
transportation, or testing facility, unless expressly and affirmatively
authorized by State and local law.

         M.   The operators of a cannabis retailer shall provide the
City Manager or the City Manager's designee with the name, cell phone
number, facsimile number, and email address of an on-site representative
to whom the City and the public can provide notice if there are any
operational problems associated with the retailer. Each cannabis
retailer shall make every good faith effort to encourage residents and
the public to call this representative to resolve any operational
problems before any calls or complaints are made to the City or law
enforcement.

         N.   A cannabis retailer shall be operated in accordance with
the conditions of approval associated with the applicable CUP for the
parcel of real property upon which the cannabis retailer activities
occur.

         O.   Retail permittees shall implement sufficient security
measures to both deter and prevent unauthorized entrance into areas
containing cannabis products and theft of cannabis products from the
retail premises.

         P.   A cannabis retail premises shall implement a security plan
including the following measures:

            1.   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in
good condition, and used in an on-going manner with at least 120
concurrent hours of digitally recorded documentation in a format
approved by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee. The cameras
shall be in use 24 hours per day, seven days per week. The areas to be
covered by the security cameras include, but are not limited to, the
storage areas, dispensing areas, delivery areas, all doors and windows,
and any other areas as determined by the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee. Remote log-in information shall be provided to the
City Manager, the City Manager's designee, and law enforcement to allow
them to view the security camera images and recordings from their own
facilities at any time. Any disruption in security camera images shall
be cured expeditiously.

            2.   The cannabis retailer shall be secured with an alarm
system that is operated and monitored by a reputable security company.

            3.   Entrances to all storage areas shall be locked at all
times, and under the control of the retailer’s staff.

            4.   All cannabis shall be stored in a secured and locked
space, and in a manner as to prevent diversion, theft, or loss.

            5.   The entrances and all window areas to storefront
retailers shall be illuminated during evening hours. All retailers shall
comply with the City’s lighting standards regarding fixture type,
wattage, illumination levels, shielding, et cetera, and shall secure the
necessary lighting approvals and permits as needed.

            6.   All windows on the building that houses the cannabis
Retailer shall be appropriately secured.

            7.   Recordings made by the security cameras shall be made
available to the City Manager, the City Manager's designee, and law
enforcement upon verbal request—no search warrant or subpoena shall be
needed to view the recorded materials.

         Q.   The City Manager, the City Manager's designee, shall have
the right to enter the Retailer for the purpose of making reasonable
inspections to observe and enforce compliance with this Section and all
laws of the City and the State. The City Manager, the City Manager's
designee, shall maintain a log tracking the time and date of all
inspections, the individuals requesting the inspection, and the result
of each inspection. Individuals participating in any such inspection
must take precautions and comply with standard safeguards and procedures
in place at the facility regarding security, clean room/clean area
access and anti-contamination measures.

         R.   A retailer shall notify the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee within 24 hours of discovering any of the following:

            1.   Any discrepancies identified during routine inventory
checks.

            2.   Diversion, theft, loss, or any criminal activity
involving the Retailer or any agent or employee of the retailer.

            3.   The loss or unauthorized alteration of records related
to medical cannabis, registered qualifying patients, primary caregivers,
or retailer agents or employees.

            4.   Any other breach of security.

         S.   A retailer shall not dispense or deliver medicinal
cannabis to any person without government-issued identification and
adequate documentation demonstrating qualification to purchase, obtain,
or possess medical cannabis. Physician's recommendations shall be
verified by retailer’s staff prior to dispensing or delivering any
medicinal cannabis to a qualified patient or primary caregiver, and at
least every six months thereafter.

         T.   Each retailer shall do regular monthly inventories, and
shall record and account for the total quantity of cannabis retained,
sold, and delivered on or from the premises. These records shall be
maintained for three years from the date created and shall be open to
inspection by the City Manager, the City Manager's Designee, and law
enforcement.

         U.   A retailer shall maintain medicinal cannabis customer
records in a secure location within the City, available for inspection
upon demand by the City Manager, the City Manager's designee, or law
enforcement. Such records shall include, without limitation, a copy of
the physician's recommendation and, if using a primary caregiver, a
notarized written authorization from the patient to be represented by
such primary caregiver.

         V.   During the delivery of cannabis, each vehicle driver shall
carry a copy of the Retail Permit, a copy of the delivery request, a
form of government-issued identification, and all other information
required by State law. The driver shall present these documents upon the
request of law enforcement, the City Manager, or the City Manager's
designee.

         W.   Prior to sale, cannabis products shall be labeled and
placed in a tamper-evident package. Labels and packages of adult-use
and/or medical cannabis products shall, at minimum, meet the
requirements specified under Business and Professions Code Sections
26106 and 26120 and other applicable State laws.

         X.   All cannabis delivery vehicles shall:

            1.   Be equipped with, and utilize, a vehicle alarm system.

            2.   Have and utilize a direct communication system with the
retailer.

            3.   Keep all cannabis in a secure and locked container.

            4.   Have an internal partition between the driver and all
passengers from the cannabis storage containers that prevents access by
the driver and passengers to all cannabis products from inside the
vehicle.

            5.   Not carry more cannabis than allowed by State law and
required to fulfill all immediate delivery requests.

         Y.   Retailers must be compliant in the State mandated
Seed-to-Sale Tracking system METRC.

      (2)   Retail Permit Applications. All applicants wishing to obtain
a Retail Permit from the City shall file an application with the City
upon a form provided by the City and shall pay a Retail Permit
application fee as established by the City. An applicant for a Retail
Permit shall submit the following information with their application for
a Retail Permit:

         A.   The address of the location for which the Retail Permit is
sought, and number of delivery vehicles employed in the retail delivery
of cannabis, if any. If delivery is proposed, a detailed delivery plan
demonstrating how the applicant will comply with State and local
delivery requirements must be included.

         B.   A site plan and floor plan for the proposed premises
denoting the use of all areas on the premises, including storage,
dispensing and delivery areas, lighting, signage, ingress and egress
points and security camera locations. The site plan shall also show the
odor control measures that will be installed and information regarding
the effectiveness of those measures shall accompany the site plan.

         C.   A proposed security plan in compliance with the retail
operating standards in this Section.

         D.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real
property upon which the Retailer is proposed to be located. In the event
the applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the application
must be accompanied with a notarized acknowledgement from the owner of
the property that a cannabis Retailer may be operated on the property.

         E.   Proof of the nature of the applicant’s organizational
status, such as articles of incorporation, by-laws, organizational
minutes, partnership agreements, and other documentation that may be
required by the City to verify the ownership of the applicant.

         F.   Written authorization for the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee to verify the information contained in the
application and to conduct a background check on all “owners” (as
defined by MAUCRSA) of the applicant.

         G.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee to
administer this Section.

         H.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in
the application is true and correct.

      (3)   Retail Permit Issuance, Transfer, Renewal.

         A.   A Retail Permit will not be awarded to an applicant if:

            1.   The applicant made one or more false or misleading
statements or omissions in the application or during the application
process.

            2.   The proposed Retailer is not allowed by State or local
law.

            3.   The applicant is not a legal representative of the
retailer.

            4.   Any “owner” of the applicant has been convicted of a
felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or the illegal use,
possession, distribution, transportation, or any such similar activity
related to controlled substances, with the exception of cannabis-related
offenses for which the conviction occurred prior to passage of
Compassionate Use Act. A conviction within the meaning of this Section
means a plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following a plea of
nolo contendere.

            5.   The applicant has engaged in unlawful, fraudulent,
unfair, or deceptive business acts or practices.

            6.   The application and accompanying materials demonstrates
that the applicant would not comply with one or more of the requirements
of this Section.

            7.   The cannabis retailer is proposed to be located at a
premises within 600 feet of a school, public playground or park, child
care or day care facility, youth center. All distances shall be measured
in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the
nearest point of the building or structure in which the cannabis
retailer is, or will be located, to the nearest property line of those
uses described in this Subsection.

         B.   A Retail Permit is subject to any additional conditions
that may be applied by the City at the time of issuance or renewal as
necessary to properly regulate the retail activities and to protect the
public.

         C.   Before a Retail Permit will be issued to an applicant,
Retail Permit fees must be paid to offset all foreseeable regulatory
costs to the City for all retail related operations.

         D.   A Retail Permittee shall:

            1.   Carry liability insurance in the amounts and types set
by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee, and name the City as
an additional insured on all such insurance policies.

            2.   Execute an Indemnification Agreement prepared by the
City that fully indemnifies the City for all liabilities associated with
the Retail Permit, the Retail Permittee's cannabis related activities,
and any action taken by the Retail Permittee pursuant to this Section.

            3.   Defend the City, at the Retail Permittee's sole
expense, in any action against the City or its agents, officers, or
employees associated with the Retail Permit, the Retail Permittee's
cannabis-related activities, or any action taken by the Retail Permittee
pursuant to this Section. The City may, at its sole discretion,
participate in the defense of any such action, but such participation
shall not relieve the Retail Permittee of its indemnification and
reimbursement obligations.

            4.   Reimburse the City for all costs, expenses, fees, and
attorneys' fees incurred by the City related to any action against the
City or its agents, officers, or employees associated with the Retail
Permit, the Retail Permittee's cannabis related activities, or any
action taken by the Retail Permittee pursuant to this Section.

         E.   Subsequent to the issuance of a Retail Permit, the Retail
Permittee shall report any change of ownership in the business to the
City. A change of ownership that solely involves a previously approved
owner no longer being an owner of the cannabis business shall be
reported to the City within thirty days of the change. A change in
ownership that involves adding a new owner to the previously approved
ownership, or a transfer of the Retail Permit to a new ownership group,
must be approved by the City in advance. All proposed new owners must
submit to a background check. The City shall approve the change in
ownership unless one or more of the grounds to deny a retail permit
listed in Subsection A. above are present.

         F.   A Retail Permit shall expire and be null and void 12
months after issuance to the Retail Permittee unless properly renewed.
Upon payment of the applicable Retail Permit fees, and passing any
requisite retail inspections, a Retail Permittee that is fully
operational and engaging in retail sales to the public shall be entitled
to renew their Retail Permit, provided that the permittee maintained
compliance with all City, State, and other applicable cannabis and
business-related laws during the term of their permit, and subject to
all prevailing laws at the time of renewal. A Retail Permittee that is
not fully operational and engaging in retail sales to the public may
apply for a renewal of their Retail Permit but a renewal shall only be
approved if the City finds that there is good cause for the permittee’s
failure to be fully operational.

         G.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not
assume any liability, and expressly does not waive sovereign immunity,
with respect to any cannabis retail activities, or for the activities of
any cannabis retailer.

      (1)   Any cannabis retail activities within the City in violation
of this Section are hereby declared to be unlawful and a public
nuisance.

      (2)   Any party who engages in any violation of this Section, or
who owns, possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real
property in the City upon which a violation of the Section is
maintained, shall be subject to the penalties and remedies provided by
this Section.

      (3)   Any violation of this Section shall constitute a separate
offense for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.

      (4)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up
to $1,000 and up to six months imprisonment per offense per day.

      (5)   A.   Any person in violation of any provision of this
Section shall be punishable by an administrative fine of up to $1,000
per offense per day. Aggregate daily fines shall not exceed $10,000 per
day if administrative fines are imposed immediately without prior
issuance of a Notice of Violation.

         B.   If the City imposes fines immediately without prior
issuance of a Notice of Violation, the property owner or their agent
shall have five days in which to submit evidence to the City of the
following: i) a tenant is in possession of the property; ii) the rental
or lease agreement with the tenant prohibits commercial cannabis
activity; and iii) the property owner or agent did not know the tenant
was engaging in illegal commercial cannabis activity and no complaint,
property inspection, or other information alerted the rental property
owner or agent to the illegal commercial cannabis activity.

         C.   The City Manager or their designee must determine whether
the evidence submitted by the property owner or rental agent proves
items i, ii, and iii above to be true. If the City Manager or their
designee so finds, the City will suspend the fines and provide the
property owner or their agent with ten days to remedy the violations
before fines are reinstated.

      (6)   Any violation of this Section or any other City or State
cannabis law by a Retail Permittee is grounds for revoking the relevant
Retail Permit. In addition, the City Manager or the City Manager's
designee may revoke a Retail Permit if any of the following occur
subject to a reasonable opportunity for the Retail Permittee to cure the
deficiency during a period of no more than 30 days:

         A.   The City Manager or the City Manager's designee determines
that the cannabis retailer has failed to comply with this Section, any
condition of approval, or any agreement or covenant as required pursuant
to this Section.

         B.   Ownership of the retailer is changed or transferred to a
third party, without prior City approval.

         C.   The retailer fails to maintain 120 hours of security
recordings.

         D.   The retailer fails to provide remote access to the
security cameras to the City Manager, the City Manager's designee, or
law enforcement, or fails to allow inspection of the security
recordings, the activity logs, or of the premises by authorized City
officials.

      (7)   Any decision regarding the revocation of a Retail Permit may
be appealed to an independent neutral third party administrative hearing
officer appointed by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee
("Hearing Officer"). Said appeal shall be made by a notice of appeal
from the person appealing within 15 days from the date of the decision
to revoke the Retail Permit. The appeal shall be accompanied by a
written verified declaration setting forth the basis for the claim that
the Retail Permit was improperly revoked. The Hearing Officer's decision
shall be final and binding upon the City and the appellant.

      (8)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition
to any other penalties and remedies available to the City.

         [Ord. No. 553, Section 5, 5/24/17; Ord. No. 557-A, Section 2,
5/24/17; Ord. No. 588, Section 8, 5/23/18; Ord. No. 602, Sections 19 -
21, 6/12/19; Ord. No. 650, Section 4, 5/8/24.]

CHAPTER 17.85
ADULT BUSINESS REGULATIONS

   17.85.010   Definitions - Adult-Oriented Business

   17.85.020   Definitions - Related Words and Phrases

   17.85.030   Definitions - Specified Anatomical Areas and Specified
Sexual Activities

   17.85.040   Conditional Use Permit - Adult-Oriented Business -
Application

   17.85.050   Referral of Application for Investigation

   17.85.060   Reservation of Right to Review Conditional Use Permit -
Changed Conditions

   17.85.070   Time Limit For Land Use Review and Decisions - First
Amendment Protected Businesses

   17.85.080   Applicability and Non-Conforming Period

   17.85.090   Extension of Non-Conforming vs. Amortization Period
(Adult-Oriented Businesses)

   17.85.100   Continuation of Nonconforming Buildings and Uses

   17.85.110   Location, Design, and Performance Standards

   17.85.120   Couch Dancing/Straddle Dancing and Other Sexual
Activities Prohibited

17.85.010 Definitions - Adult-Oriented Business

   (a)   An "Adult-Oriented Business" is any business where employees or
patrons expose "specified anatomical areas" or engage in "specified
sexual activities," or any business which offers to its patrons services
or entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
exposing, describing, discussing, or relating to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."

   Adult-Oriented Businesses do not include bona fide medical
establishments operated by properly licensed and registered medical
personnel with appropriate medical credentials for the treatment of
patients.

   (b)   In determining whether a use is an Adult-Oriented Business,
only conduct or activities which constitute a regular and substantial
course of conduct or a use which has a majority of its floor area,
stock-in-trade, or revenue derived from material characterized by an
emphasis on matters depicting, exposing, describing, discussing, or
relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas" shall be considered. Isolated instances of conduct or activities
described in this Section as characterizing an Adult-Oriented Business
shall not be considered except where such activities, taken together,
constitute a regular and substantial course of conduct.

   (c)   Adult-Oriented Businesses include, but are not limited to, the
following:

      (1)   Adult Arcade

         An "Adult Arcade" shall mean any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated, or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projections, or other image-producing devices are
maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at
any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."

      (2)   Adult Bookstore

         "Adult Bookstore" is an establishment having, as a substantial
portion of its stock-in-trade, and offering for sale for any form of
consideration, any one or more of the following:

         A.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter,
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
visual representations which are characterized by an emphasis upon the
depiction or description of "specified anatomical areas;"

         B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed
for use in connection with "specified sexual activities;" or

         C.   Goods which are replicas of, or which simulate, "specified
anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities" or goods which are
designed to be placed on or in "specified anatomical areas," or to be
used in conjunction with "specified sexual activities," to cause sexual
excitement.

      (3)   Adult Cabaret

         An "Adult Cabaret" is a bar, nightclub, or similar
establishment which features dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers
who expose "specified anatomical areas" of their bodies.

      (4)   Adult Motel

         An "Adult Motel" means a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment which:

         A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of
consideration; provides patrons with closed circuit television
transmissions, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas" and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way which
advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions; or

         B.   Offers a room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten (10) hours; or

         C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than (10) hours.

      (5)   Adult Motion Picture Theater

         An "Adult Motion Picture Theater" shall mean a commercial
establishment where, for any form of consideration, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions
are regularly shown which are characterized by the depictions or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas."

      (6)   Adult Tanning Salon

         An "Adult Tanning Salon" or "Parlor" shall mean a business
establishment where patrons receive tanning services in groups of two
(2) or more and where patrons or employees of the establishment expose
specified anatomical areas. "Adult Tanning Salon" or "Parlor" shall also
include a business establishment where a patron and an employee of the
establishment are nude or expose specified anatomical areas. An "Adult
Tanning Salon" or "Parlor" shall also include a business establishment
where the employees thereof are nude or expose "specified anatomical
areas."

      (7)   Adult Theater

         An "Adult Theater" is any place, building, enclosure, theater,
concert hall, auditorium, or structure, partially or entirely used for
live performances or presentations, which place, building, enclosure,
theater, concert hall, auditorium, or structure is used for presenting
matter characterized by an emphasis on depicting, exposing, describing,
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas" for observation by patrons therein. Such place shall also include
an adult theater wherein persons are regularly featured appearing in a
state of nudity or giving live performances which are characterized by
the exposure of "specified sexual activities" or by "specified
anatomical areas."

      (8)   Escort Agency

         An "Escort Agency" means a person or business entity which
furnishes, offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of
its primary business purposes, for any form of consideration.

      (9)   Nude Model Studio

         A "Nude Model Studio" means any place where a person who
appears in a state of nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is
provided to be conversed with or be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons, for
any form of consideration. "Nude Model Studio" shall not include any
classroom of any school licensed under State law to provide art
education while such classroom is being used in a manner consistent with
such State license.

      (10)   Sex Supermarket/Sex Mini-Mall

         A "Sex Supermarket/Sex Mini-Mall" shall mean the establishment
or operation of more than one type of Adult-Oriented Business or use as
defined in this Zoning Code within the same building.

      (11)   Sexual Encounter Center

         "Sexual Encounter Center" means a business or commercial
enterprise that, as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any
form of consideration:

         (A)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling
between persons of the opposite sex when one or more of the persons is
in a state of nudity or is semi-nude or is exhibiting specified
anatomical areas; or

         (B)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons
of the same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity
or is semi-nude or is exhibiting specified anatomical areas.

      (12)   Sexual Novelty Store

         A "Sexual Novelty Store" is an establishment having, as a
substantial portion of its stock-in-trade, goods which are replicas of,
or which simulate "specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual
activities," or goods which are designed to be placed on or in
"specified anatomical areas" or to be used in conjunction with
"specified sexual activities," to cause sexual excitement.

      (13)   Sexually Oriented Business

         A "Sexually Oriented Business" is any business, where employees
or patrons expose "specified anatomical areas" or engage in or simulate
"specified sexual activities," or any business which offers to its
patrons services or entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, exposing, describing, discussing, or relating to "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."

17.85.020 Definitions - Related Words and Phrases

   In addition to the terms defined in Sections 17.85.010 and 17.85.030,
the following words and phrases shall have the meaning set forth below:

   (a)   Escort

      An "Escort" means any person who, for consideration, agrees or
offers to act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who
agrees or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a
"striptease" for another person. Escort shall not include any person
hired by a State licensed school for purposes of modeling in any art
education class while such person acts in that capacity.

   (b)   Establishment

      An "Establishment" means and includes any of the following:

      (1)   The opening or commencement of any Adult-Oriented Business
as a new business;

      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an
Adult-Oriented Business, to any Adult-Oriented Business;

      (3)   The addition of any Adult-Oriented Business to any other
existing Adult-Oriented Business; or to another existing
non-Adult-Oriented Business, with or without expansion of floor area;

      (4)   The relocation of any Adult-Oriented Business; or

      (5)   The expansion or enlargement of the premises by ten (10)
percent or more of the existing floor area.

   (c)   Nudity or a State of Nudity

      "Nudity" or a "State of Nudity" means the appearance of a human
bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female genitals, or female breast.

   (d)   Private Viewing Area

      "Private Viewing Area" means an area or areas in an Adult-Oriented
Business designed to accommodate no more than five (5) or less patrons
or customers for purposes of viewing or watching a performance, picture,
show, film, videotape, slide, movie, or other presentation. No private
viewing areas shall be established, maintained, or authorized, and there
shall be no doors, curtains, stalls, or other enclosures creating a
private viewing area.

   (e)   Semi-Nude

      "Semi-Nude" means a state of dress in which clothing, including
supporting straps or devices, covers no more than the genitals, pubic
region, and areolae of the female breast.

   (f)   "Specified Criminal Act"

      A "Specified Criminal Act" shall also mean "Specified Criminal
Acts" and include sexual crimes against children; sexual abuse; rape; or
crimes connected with another Adult-Oriented Business including, but not
limited to, the distribution of obscenity; violations involving the
distribution, display, or sale of material harmful to minors;
prostitution; or pandering. "Specified Criminal Acts" shall exclude
those acts which are authorized or required to be kept confidential
pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code Sections 600-900.

17.85.030 Definitions - Specified Anatomical Areas and Specified Sexual
Activities

   The following words and phrases when used in this Zoning Code shall
have the meaning set forth below:

   (a)   "Specified Anatomical Areas" shall include any of the following
human anatomical areas:

      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks, anuses, or female breasts below a point immediately
above the top of the areolae; or

      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.

   (b)   "Specified Sexual Activities" include all of the following:

      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of the following human
anatomical areas: genitals, pubic regions, buttocks, anuses, or female
breasts;

      (2)   Human sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
including intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;

      (3)   Human masturbation, actual or simulated;

      (4)   The actual or simulated infliction of pain by one human upon
another, or by an individual upon himself or herself, for the purpose of
the sexual gratification or release of either individual, as a result of
flagellation, beating, striking, or touching of an erogenous zone,
including without limitation, the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic
region, or, if such person is a female, a breast;

      (5)   Sexual intercourse, actual or simulated, between a human
being and an animal; or

      (6)   Human excretory functions.

17.85.040 Conditional Use Permit - Adult-Oriented Business - Application

   In order to operate an Adult-Oriented Business within this City, the
applicant or proprietor of the business must obtain any license required
by the Municipal Code and a Conditional Use Permit as required herein.
All applicants for such a permit shall file a written, signed, and
verified application on a form provided by the Planning Director
evidencing the following:

   (a)   The name and permanent address of the applicant;

   (b)   The name and business address of the applicants. If the
applicant is a corporation, the applicant shall provide the name of and
the State of Incorporation. The name shall be exactly as set forth in
its Articles of Incorporation, and the applicant shall show the name and
address each of the officers, directors, and controlling stockholders
owning no less than ten (10 ) percent of the stock of the corporation.
If the applicant is a partnership, the application shall show the name
and address of each of the partners, including limited partners;

   (c)   Location and address of the proposed Adult-Oriented Business;

   (d)   Legal description of the subject property;

   (e)   A detailed description of the manner of providing proposed
entertainment, including type of entertainment and the number of persons
engaged in the entertainment;

   (f)   Proposed hours of operation;

   (g)   A floor plan showing where the specific entertainment uses are
proposed to be conducted within the building;

   (h)   The name or names of the person or persons having
responsibility for the management or supervision of the applicant's
business and of any entertainment; and

   (i)   Statement of the nature and character of the applicant's
business, if any, to be carried on in conjunction with such
entertainment.

   Notwithstanding the fact that an application filed hereunder may be a
"public record" under Government Code Section 6250 et seq., certain
portions of such application contain information vital to the effective
administration and enforcement of the licensing and/or permit scheme
established herein which is personal, private, confidential, or the
disclosure of which could expose the applicant to a risk of harm. Such
information includes, but is not limited to, the applicant's residence
address and telephone number, the applicant's date of birth and/or age,
the applicant's driver's license and/or Social Security Number, and/or
personal financial data. The City Council in adopting the application
and licensing and/or permit system set forth herein has determined in
accordance with Government Code Section 6255 that the public interest in
disclosure of the information set forth above is outweighed by the
public interest in achieving compliance with this Chapter by ensuring
that the applicant's privacy, confidentially, or security interests are
protected. The City Clerk shall cause to be obliterated from any copy of
a completed license application made available to any member of the
public, the information set forth above.

17.85.050 Referral of Application for Investigation

   The Planning Director shall refer the permit application to the
designated head of the law enforcement agency providing police services
to the City for an investigation to be made of such information as is
contained on the application.

   (a)   After an investigation, including obtaining the information
pursuant to the Municipal Code, the designated head of the law
enforcement agency providing police services to the City shall issue a
report to the Planning Director or the Planning Commission, as
appropriate, and the Planning Director or the Planning Commission, as
appropriate, shall approve the permit unless one or more of the
following findings is true:

      (1)   That the applicant, his or her employee, agent, partner,
director, officer, controlling stock holder, or manager has knowingly
made any false, misleading, or fraudulent statement of material fact in
the application for a permit, or in any report or record required to be
filed with any City or County agency or department.

      (2)   That on the date that the business for which a permit is
required herein commences, or thereafter, there will be no responsible
person on the premises to act as manager at all times during which the
Adult-Oriented Business is open.

      (3)   That an applicant is under 18 years of age.

      (4)   That an applicant has been convicted of a "Specific Criminal
Act" for which:

         A.   Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the
"Specified Criminal Acts" which are sexual crimes against children;
sexual abuse; rape; or crimes connected with another Adult-Oriented
Business including, but not limited to, distribution of obscenity;
distribution, display, or sale of material harmful to minors;
prostitution; or pandering.

         B.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; for the "Specified
Criminal Acts" which are sexual crimes against children; sexual abuse;
rape; or crimes connected with another Adult-Oriented Business
including, but not limited to, distribution of obscenity; distribution,
display, or sale of material harmful to minors; prostitution; or
pandering.

         C.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the
later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more misdemeanors for
the "Specified Criminal Acts" which are sexual crimes against children;
sexual abuse; rape; or crimes connected with another Adult-Oriented
Business including, but not limited to, distribution of obscenity;
distribution, display, or sale of material harmful to minors;
prostitution; or pandering; or conviction of any such offense occurring
within twenty-four (24) months prior to application.

         D.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant.

         E.   An applicant who has been convicted of any of the above
described "Specified Criminal Acts" may qualify to own, operate, or
manage an Adult-Oriented Business only when the required time period has
elapsed.

   (b)   In the event the information is not immediately available, the
designated head of the law enforcement entity providing police services
to the City shall, if the application otherwise meets the requirements
of the Municipal Code and the investigation conducted reveals none of
the factors set forth in subsection (a) above, issue a report thereon
and the permit shall issue therefrom. Where upon, the City Manager, or
designee thereof, shall issue the permit. Should the information
obtained materially vary from that on the application, such variance
shall be cause to revoke the permit. Any license issued prior to the
City receiving the information required by the Municipal Code shall
state clearly on its face that the license is subject to suspension or
revocation pursuant to the Municipal Code.

   (c)   The City's decision to grant or deny the permit shall not
include information authorized or required to be kept confidential
pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code Sections 600 to 900.

17.85.060 Reservation of Right to Review Conditional Use Permit -
Changed Conditions

   Any Conditional Use Permit granted or approved hereunder shall be
granted or approved with the City and its City Council and Planning
Commission retaining and reserving the right and jurisdiction to review
and modify the permit, including the conditions of approval, based on
changed circumstances. Changed circumstances include, but are not
limited to, the modification of the business, the change in scope,
emphasis, size, or nature of the business, and the expansion,
alteration, or change of use. The reservation of the right to review any
permit granted or approval hereunder by the City, its City Council, and
Planning Commission is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the right of
the City, its City Council, and Planning Commission to review and revoke
or modify any permit granted or approved hereunder for any violations of
the conditions imposed on such permit.

17.85.070 Time Limit For Land Use Review and Decisions - First Amendment
Protected Businesses

   (a)   Interim CUP

      (1)   The Planning Director shall accept as complete, or deny as
incomplete, the application for a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) for a
business protected by the First Amendment of the United States
Constitution within ten (10) days from the date on which an application
is submitted to the Director.

      (2)   In order to avoid undue delay or suppression of any
protected expression, the Planning Director shall make an initial
determination that the required information is contained in the
application to process an Interim CUP within five (5) days of the date
of filing the application. If the application is sufficient to issue an
Interim CUP, such shall be issued by the Planning Director within ten
(10) days of the date the application was filed. A sufficient
application shall include, but not be limited to, the applicant's
meeting the requirements to be issued an Adult-Oriented Business License
required by the Adelanto Municipal Code and the proposed business must
be located in the Manufacturing District, and subject to the locational
and setback requirements of Section 17.30.040 of the Adelanto Municipal
Code. The granting of the Interim CUP by the Planning Director is
without prejudice to and does not preclude the denial of the Final CUP
application filed by the applicant. The Interim CUP shall terminate upon
the Planning Commission taking action on the Final CUP. No right to
operate beyond the termination of the Interim CUP for a First Amendment
Protected Business shall vest in the applicant if the applicant is
unable or unwilling to obtain the Adult-Oriented Business License
required by the Adelanto Municipal Code and the Final CUP required by
this Section.

   (b)   Final CUP

      The Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the completed
CUP application within ninety (90) days of its acceptance as complete by
the Director. The time limit established by this Section may be extended
once for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days upon consent of the
Planning Director and the applicant.

      (1)   To approve the Final CUP, the Planning Commission, or City
Council on appeal, must first make the following findings:

         A.   That all applicable filing fees have been paid.

         B.   That the applicant is not overdue in payment to the City
of any taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed in
relation to an existing or former Adult-Oriented Business.

         C.   That the building, structure, equipment, and location used
by the business for which an Adult-Oriented Business License is required
complies with the requirements and standards of the health, building,
zoning, fire, and safety laws of the State of California, the Adelanto
Fire Department, and the City of Adelanto.

         D.   That the conduct of the Adult-Oriented Business as
proposed by the applicant, if permitted, will comply with all applicable
laws; including but not limited to, the City's building, zoning, fire,
and health and safety regulations.

         E.   That the City currently has no evidence demonstrating that
the applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or fraudulent
statement of material facts in the CUP application or any other document
required by the City in conjunction therewith.

         F.   That the use is permitted in the zone, district, or area
in which it is proposed to be located and is in conformity with the
applicable development standards of that zone, district, or area,
including the provision of required parking.

         G.   That the use is in conformity with the locational criteria
set forth in Section 17.85.110 of this Zoning Code.

         H.   That the design of the site and the proposed improvements
are in compliance with all applicable design provisions of Section
17.85.110 of this Zoning Code.

         I.   That the proposed conduct of the Adult-Oriented Business
is in compliance with all applicable performance standards of Section
17.85.110 of this Zoning Code.

      (2)   In the event the Planning Commission, or the City Council on
appeal, denies the Final CUP application, the business shall cease its
operations as an Adult-Oriented Business and no further activities
regulated by this Zoning Code or the Adelanto Municipal Code shall be
conducted on the premises unless and until a CUP and a license required
by the Adelanto Municipal Code is obtained. The Interim CUP shall also
terminate on the date the CUP application is denied.

   (c)   If the permit requested is for a development project for
construction or reconstruction subject to the Permit Streamlining Act
(Government Code §65920 et seq.), the time limits provided in the Permit
Streamlining Act shall apply to the Conditional Use Permit's approval or
denial.

   (d)   Upon the filing of an appeal, the Planning Commission or the
City Council shall render its decision on the appeal within sixty (60)
days.

17.85.080 Applicability and Non-Conforming Period

   (a)   All design and performance standards set forth in this Chapter
are deemed to be necessary for the protection of the public health,
safety, and welfare and shall be applicable and govern all existing and
proposed Adult-Oriented Businesses immediately upon adoption and passage
of this Chapter.

   (b)   In the event that there is any Adult-Oriented Business lawfully
in existence prior to the adoption of this Chapter and is not in
compliance with the design and performance standards of this Chapter,
any such Adult-Oriented Business shall conform to all design and
performance standards within twelve (12) months of the effective date of
this Chapter.

17.85.090 Extension of Non-Conforming vs. Amortization Period (Adult-
Oriented Businesses)

   (a)   An application for extension of the amortization period for an
Adult-Oriented Business which is a nonconforming use shall be made as
provided in Chapter 17.165 of this Zoning Code.

   (b)   The owner of the property on which an Adult-Oriented Business
is located or the owner of the Adult-Oriented Business who desires to
extend the amortization period must apply for approval of an extension
not later than six (6) months prior to expiration of the amortization
period, unless the Planning Director determines that good cause is shown
for late filing of the application. Such application shall be made in
writing on a form as prescribed by the Planning Director and shall be
accompanied by the required fee as established by Resolution of the City
Council. The party requesting the extension of the amortization period
shall bear the burden of proof in establishing that the amortization
period established by Section 17.85.100 of the Adelanto Municipal Code
is unreasonable and that the requested extension is a reasonable
amortization period for the owner to receive a fair rate of return on
the investment in the business. The party applying for the extension
shall furthermore be required in order to meet its burden of proof to
submit the documentation set forth in this Section.

   (c)   Not later than thirty (30) days after submittal of an
application to extend the amortization period, the Planning Director
shall notify the applicant, in writing, if the application is not
complete. A complete application shall include:

      (1)   The applicant's signature;

      (2)   A written request for an extension of the amortization
period which shall include information relevant to the factors listed in
subsection (f) below and shall identify the term of the requested
extension;

      (3)   The required fees;

      (4)   A mailing list and a set of gummed labels with the names,
addresses, and tax assessor parcel numbers of all owners of real
property within a radius of three hundred (300) feet from the external
boundaries of the property on which the Adult-Oriented Business is
located; and

      (5)   A tax assessor's parcel map identifying the properties to be
notified within the three hundred (300) foot radius.

   If the application is not complete, the Planning Director shall
specify in writing those parts which are incomplete and shall identify
the manner by which the application can be made complete. If a written
determination is not provided to the applicant within thirty (30)
calendar days after it is submitted, the application shall be deemed
complete.

   (d)   In determining whether to grant an extension of the
amortization period for an Adult-Oriented Business which is a
nonconforming use, and in determining the appropriate length of such an
extension, the reviewing authority shall consider the amount of
investment in the business, the opportunities for relocation to a
legally permissible site, the costs of relocation, the effects of the
business on the surrounding area, and the following additional factors:

      (1)   The present actual and depreciated value of business
improvements;

      (2)   The applicable Internal Revenue Service depreciation
schedule or functional non-confidential equivalents;

      (3)   The remaining useful life of the business improvements;

      (4)   The remaining lease term;

      (5)   The ability of the business and/or land owner to change the
use to a conforming use; and

      (6)   The date upon which the property owner and/or business
operator received notice of the non-conforming status of the
Adult-Oriented Business and the amortization requirements.

   (e) The Planning Commission, or City Council on appeal, shall receive
and consider evidence presented by the applicant and any other persons,
and shall make findings that the amortization period it establishes is
reasonable in view of the evidence and the criteria set forth above.

17.85.100 Continuation of Nonconforming Buildings and Uses

   Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 17.85.080 and 17.85.090 of
this Chapter, the following provisions shall apply to Adult-Oriented
Businesses:

   (a)   Any Adult-Oriented Business which is a nonconforming use on
January 1, 1999, shall be subject to an amortization period expiring
January 1, 2003, and any Adult-Oriented Business which becomes a
nonconforming use after January 1, 1999, shall be subject to an
amortization period of three (3) years commencing on the date the use
becomes nonconforming.

   (b)   The owner of any Adult-Oriented Business which is a
nonconforming use may apply for extension of the amortization period,
pursuant to Section 17.165 of this Zoning Code. Such application shall
be made prior to the expiration of the amortization period unless the
reviewing authority determines that good cause is shown for late filing
of the application.

   (c)   Upon the conclusion of the amortization period, any
Adult-Oriented Business which is a nonconforming use shall cease all
business operations and all signs, advertising, and displays relating to
said business shall be removed within thirty (30) days.

17.85.110 Location, Design, and Performance Standards

   (a)   An Adult-Oriented Business shall not be established or located
within one thousand feet (1,000') of:

      (1)   Any County or City zone or land use district which contains
the words "Residence," "Residential," “Ranches,” “Mobile Home” or
"Desert Living" within its title;

      (2)   Any residential use;

      (3)   Any church, chapel, or similar place of worship, or property
zoned, planned, or otherwise designated for such use by City action;

      (4)   Any funeral parlor, mortuary, cemetery, or similar facility,
or property zoned, planned, or otherwise designated for such use by City
action;

      (5)   Any school, nursery school, day care center, park, or public
or private playground, or property zoned, planned, or otherwise
designated for such use by City action; or

      (6)   Any other recreational facility where minors congregate, or
property zoned, planned, or otherwise designated for such use by City
action.

   (b)   An Adult-Oriented Business shall not be established or located
within one thousand feet (1,000') of an existing Adult-Oriented
Business. If two (2) or more existing Adult-Oriented Businesses are
located in closer proximity to each other than one thousand feet
(1,000'), then in determining which of the businesses is or are
nonconforming, preference shall be given in the order of the respective
lengths of continuous uninterrupted operation of the businesses.

   (c)   For the purposes of this Section, all distances shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures,
from the nearest point of the building, or structure in which the
Adult-Oriented Business is or will be located to the nearest property
line of any land use, land use district, or zone described in subsection
(a) above, or to the nearest point of the building or structure in which
an existing Adult-Oriented Business described in subsection (b) above is
located.

   (d)   No advertising sign or structure, advertisement, display, or
other promotional material depicting "specified anatomical areas" or
"specified sexual activities" or displaying instruments, devices, or
paraphernalia designed for use in connection with "specific sexual
activities," shall be shown or exhibited so as to be visible from any
exterior area.

   (e)   All building openings, entries, and windows shall be located,
covered, or screened to prevent viewing the interior from any exterior
area.

   (f)   No loudspeaker or sound equipment audible to persons in any
public exterior area shall be used in connection with an Adult-Oriented
Business, and the business shall be so conducted that sounds associated
with the business are not emitted into any public exterior area.

   (g)   The establishment of an Adult-Oriented Business shall comply
with the applicable site development standards, including parking,of the
zone, district, or area in which the Adult-Oriented Business is located,
the Building Code, Fire Code, and the Health and Safety Code of the City
of Adelanto. An Adult-Oriented Business shall comply with the applicable
City of Adelanto permit and inspection procedures. In addition,
Adult-Oriented Businesses shall comply with the following performance
standards:

      (1)   Each Adult-Oriented Business shall have a business entrance
separate from any other non-adult business located in the same building.

      (2)   No Adult-Oriented Business shall be operated in any manner
that permits the observation by the public of any material depicting,
describing, or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" from any public way or from any location beyond the
walls of the building or portion thereof in which the Adult-Oriented
Business is conducted.

      (3)   The building entrance to the Adult-Oriented Business shall
be clearly and legibly posted with a notice indicating that minors are
precluded from entering the premises.

      (4)   Each Adult-Oriented Business shall be provided with a
manager's station for the purpose of supervising activities within the
business. A manager shall be on duty on the premises during all times
that the Adult-Oriented Business is open to the public.

      (5)   Any viewing room shall be visible from the manager's station
of the Adult-Oriented Business, and visibility of the entire viewing
room from the manager's station shall be neither obscured nor obstructed
by any curtain, door, wall, or other structure.

      (6)   All exterior areas of Adult-Oriented Businesses, including
buildings, landscaping, and parking areas, shall be maintained in a
clean and orderly manner free of trash, weeds, and debris.

      (7)   The maximum occupancy load, fire exits, fire lanes, and fire
suppression equipment shall be regulated, designed, and provided in
accordance with the regulations and standards of the Adelanto Fire
Department and the City's Building Department.

      (8)   No Adult-Oriented Business shall operate between the hours
of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of any particular day. The Planning
Commission, or City Council on appeal, shall establish the actual
permitted hours of operation for each permit approved or granted. No
owner, operator, manager, or employee of an Adult-Oriented Business,
regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said business
under the provisions of this Zoning Code, shall allow such business to
remain open for business, or to permit any employee to engage in a
performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide
a service, or solicit a service between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00
a.m. of any particular day or in violation of the actual permitted hours
of operation established in the Conditions of Approval for the permit.

      (9)   Any person who operates or causes to be operated an
Adult-Oriented Business, other than an Adult Motel and regardless of
whether or not an Adult-Oriented Business License has been issued to
said business under this Zoning Code, which exhibits on the premises in
a viewing room or viewing booth of less than one hundred fifty (150)
square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, or other video
reproduction which depicts "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas," shall comply with the following requirements:

         A.   Upon application for an Adult-Oriented Business License,
the application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises
showing a plan thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's
stations, the location of all overhead lighting fixtures, and
designating any portion of the premises in which patrons shall not be
permitted. A manager's station(s) shall not exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet of floor area.

         B.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a
manager's station shall be made without the prior written approval of
the Planning Director.

         C.   It is the duty of the licensee to insure that at least one
(1) employee is on duty and situated at each manager's station at all
times that any patron is present inside the premises.

         D.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of
every area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose, excluding restrooms. Restrooms shall not contain video
reproduction equipment. If the premises has two (2) or more manager's
stations designed, then the interior of the premises shall be configured
in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at
least one (1) of the manager's stations. The view required in this
subsection shall be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.

         E.   It shall be the duty of the licensee and any employees
present on the premises to insure that the view area remains
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other
materials at all times and to insure that no patron is permitted access
to any area of the premises which has been designed as an area in which
patrons shall not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to this
Chapter.

      (10)   An on-site security program shall be prepared and
implemented including the following items:

         A.   All off-street parking areas and building entries serving
the Adult-Oriented Business shall be illuminated during all hours of
operation with a lighting system designed to provide an average
maintained horizontal illumination of one (1) foot candle of light on
the parking surface and/or walkway. This required lighting level is
established in order to provide sufficient illumination of the parking
areas and walkways serving the Adult-Oriented Business for the personal
safety of patrons and employees and to reduce the incidence of vandalism
and theft. The lighting shall be shown on the required site or plot plan
and shall be subject to review for compliance through the Design Review
process by the Planning Director and the designated head of the entity
providing law enforcement services to the City.

         B.   All interior portions of the Adult-Oriented Business,
except those areas devoted to mini-motion or motion pictures, shall be
illuminated during all hours of operation with a lighting system
designed to provide a minimum maintained horizontal illumination of not
less than two (2) footcandles of light.

         C.   For Adult-Oriented Businesses which exceed an occupant
load of one hundred twenty-five (125) persons, the provision of on-site
security personnel shall be required during all business hours pursuant
to a plan to be reviewed and approved for adequacy by the designated
head of the law enforcement entity providing law enforcement services to
the City. Security personnel shall be licensed in accordance with the
California Business and Professions Code, to the satisfaction of the
designated head of the entity providing law enforcement services to the
City.

      (11)   Adult Motion Picture Theater

         A.   A manager's station shall be located near the main
entrance and the station shall be provided with an unobstructed view of
all motion picture private viewing areas.

         B.   No adult motion picture arcade shall be maintained or
operated unless the complete interior of the adult motion picture
theater is visible upon entrance to such adult motion picture theater.
No partially or fully enclosed booths or partially or fully concealed
booths shall be maintained.

         C.   Maximum Number of Devices. No person shall operate an
adult motion picture theater in which the number of image producing
devices exceeds the maximum occupancy load permitted in any room or
partitioned portion of a room in which an image producing device is
located.

      (12)   Adult Hotel/Motel

         A.   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a
similar commercial establishment has been rented or subrented and
vacated two (2) or more times in a period of time that is less than ten
(10) hours on a recurring basis, creates a rebuttable presumption that
the establishment is an adult hotel/motel as that term is defined in
this Zoning Code.

         B.   A person is in violation of the provisions of this Zoning
Code if such person rents or sub-rents a sleeping room at a location
without an Adult-Oriented Business License and a CUP-Adult-Oriented
Business to a person or persons and within ten (10) hours thereafter
rents or sub-rents the same room to another person(s), or sub-rents the
same room to the prior renter.

   (h)   All persons on the premises of the establishment who are
engaged in specified sexual activities or are exposing specified
anatomical areas must be located upon a stage that is at least eighteen
inches (18") above the immediate floor level and is at least six feet
(6') from the nearest patron.

   (i)   Patrons of establishments are prohibited from directly or
indirectly giving tips (money or anything else of value) to performers,
owners, employees, or agents of an establishment, and said performers,
owners, employees and agents are prohibited from directly or indirectly
accepting from patrons of an establishment tips (money or anything else
of value).

   (j)   Establishments, except adult theaters, shall be illuminated at
a minimum of 1.00 foot-candle, maintained and evenly distributed at
ground level, excluding only those areas shielded by tables or similar
obstructions.

17.85.120 Couch Dancing/Straddle Dancing and Other Sexual Activities
Prohibited

   For purposes of this Section, couch dancing or straddle dancing shall
be defined as an activity involving at least two persons where at least
one of the persons is a patron who is sitting or resting on an object or
the floor and at least one of the persons is dancing or moving such that
said person’s genitals, pubic region, buttock or female breast,
regardless of whether such body area is covered or uncovered, is
positioned for any period of time within three feet (3') of, and at a
level between, the chin and forehead of, the person(s) who is/are
sitting or resting on an object or the floor.

   (a)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated an
Adult-Oriented Business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued under this Zoning Code, knowingly, or with reason to know,
permitting, suffering, or allowing any employee:

      (1)   To engage in a couch dance or straddle dance with a patron
at the business;

      (2)   To contract or otherwise agree with a patron to engage in a
couch dance or straddle dance with a person at the business;

      (3)   To intentionally touch any patron at an Adult-Oriented
Business while engaged in the display or exposure of "specified
anatomical area," or engaged in or simulating a "specified sexual
activity"; or

      (4)   To voluntarily be within six (6) feet of any patron while
engaged in the display or exposure of any "specified anatomical area" or
engaged in or simulating a "specified sexual activity."

   (b)   No employee of an Adult-Oriented Business shall:

      (1)   Engage in a couch dance or straddle dance with a patron at
the business;

      (2)   Contract or otherwise agree to engage in a couch dance or
straddle dance with a patron at the business;

      (3)   Engage in the display or exposure of any "specified
anatomical area" or engage in or simulate a "specified sexual activity"
while intentionally touching a patron at the Adult-Oriented Business; or

      (4)   Engage in the display or exposure of any "specified
anatomical area" or engage in or simulate a "specified sexual activity"
closer than six (6) feet from any patron.

   (c)   No person at any Adult-Oriented Business, regardless of whether
or not said business is permitted under this Zoning Code, shall
intentionally touch an employee who is displaying or exposing any
"specified anatomical area" or engaging in or simulating a "specified
sexual activity" at the Adult-Oriented Business.

   (d)   No person at any Adult-Oriented Business, regardless of whether
or not said business is permitted under this Zoning Code, shall engage
in a couch dance or straddle dance with an employee at the business who
is displaying or exposing any "specified anatomical area" or engaging in
or simulating a "specified sexual activity."

   (e)   No employee of an Adult-Oriented Business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this
Chapter, shall engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a
sale, solicit a sale, provide a service, or solicit a service between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of any particular day.

CHAPTER 17.90
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

   17.90.010   Intent and Purpose

   17.90.020   Noise

   17.90.030    Vibration

   17.90.040   Lighting

   17.90.050   Smoke

   17.90.060   Mechanical and Electrical Equipment

   17.90.070   Electrical Interference

   17.90.080   Fire or Explosive Hazard

   17.90.090   Liquid and Solid Wastes

   17.90.100   Heat or Cold

   17.90.110   Odors

   17.90.120   Fissionable or Radioactive Materials

17.90.010 Intent and Purpose

   (a)   Performance standards are designed to minimize and mitigate the
environmental impacts of existing and proposed land uses within a
community. Environmental impacts include noise, air quality, glare,
heat, waste disposal, and runoff control. Performance standards protect
the health and safety of workers, nearby residents, and businesses, and
prevent damaging effects to surrounding properties.

   (b)   The performance standards contained in this Chapter shall apply
to all land uses, including permanent and temporary uses.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

17.90.020 Noise

   (a)   Noise Measurement

   Noise shall be measured with a sound level meter which meets the
standards of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Section
SI4-1979, Type 1 or Type 2. Noise levels shall be measured using the "A"
weighted sound pressure level scale in decibels (reference pressure = 20
micronewtons per meter squared). The unit of measure shall be designated
as dB(A). Code Enforcement shall be the noise control officer.

   (b)   Noise Standards

      (1)   The noise standards contained in Table VIII-2, "Land Use
Compatibility Guidelines Related to Noise Exposure" in the Noise Element
of the General Plan shall apply to land uses city-wide and shall be used
to define acceptable and unacceptable noise levels.

      (2)   No person shall operate or cause to operate any source of
sound at any location or allow the creation of any noise on property
owned, leased, occupied or otherwise controlled by such person, which
causes the noise level, when measured on any other property, either
incorporated or unincorporated, to exceed:

         A.   The noise standard plus three (3) dBA for that receiving
land use specified in Table VIII-2 of the General Plan Noise Element for
a cumulative period of more than thirty (30) minutes in any hour; or

         B.   The noise standard plus five (5) dBA for a cumulative
period of more than five (5) minutes in any hour; or

         C.   The noise standard plus ten (10) dBA for a cumulative
period of more than three (3) minutes in any hour; or

         D.   The noise standard plus fifteen (15) dBA for a cumulative
period of more than one (1) minute in any hour; or

         E.    The noise standard plus twenty (20) dBA for any period of
time.

      (3)   If the measured ambient level exceeds any of the first four
(4) noise limit categories above, the allowable noise exposure standard
shall be increased to reflect the ambient noise level. If the ambient
noise level exceeds the fifth noise limit category, the maximum
allowable noise level under this category shall be increased to reflect
the maximum ambient noise level.

      (4)   If the alleged offense consists entirely of impact noise or
simple tone noise, each of the noise levels in Section 17.90.020(b)(2)A.
shall be reduced by five (5) dBA.

   (c)   Exempt Noises

   The following activities shall be exempted from the provisions of
this Chapter:

      (1)   All mechanical devices, apparatus or equipment used, and
related to or connected with emergency machinery, vehicles or
activities.

      (2)   The provisions of this regulation shall not preclude the
construction, operation, maintenance and repairs of equipment, apparatus
or facilities of park and recreation projects, public works projects or
essential public works services and facilities, including those
utilities subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the California
Public Utilities Commission.

      (3)   Normal activities associated with and conducted on the
grounds of any elementary, intermediate, secondary school or college.

      (4)   Outdoor gatherings, public dances and shows, provided said
events are conducted pursuant to a permit as required by this Zoning
Code.

      (5)   Activities conducted in public parks and public playgrounds,
provided said events are conducted pursuant to a permit as required by
this Zoning Code.

      (6)   Any activity to the extent regulation thereof has been
preempted by State or Federal law.

      (7)   Traffic on any roadway or railroad right-of-way.

      (8)   Construction activity on private properties that are
determined by the Building Official to be essential to the completion of
a project, and are in compliance with Section 17.90.020(d)(1) of this
Chapter.

   (d)   Construction Practices

   To reduce potential noise and air quality nuisances, the following
items shall be listed as "General Notes" on the construction drawings:

      (1)   Construction activity and equipment maintenance is limited
to the hours between 7:00 a.m. to dusk on weekdays. Construction may not
occur on weekends or State holidays, without prior consent of the
Building Official. Non-noise generating activities (e.g. interior
painting) are not subject to these restrictions. City and State
construction projects, such as road re-building or resurfacing, and any
construction activity that is in response to an emergency, shall be
exempt from this requirement.

      (2)   Stationary construction equipment that generates noise in
excess of sixty-five (65) dBA at the project boundaries must be
acoustically shielded and located at least one hundred feet (100') from
occupied residences. The equipment area with appropriate acoustic
shielding shall be designated on building and grading plans. Equipment
and shielding shall remain in the designated location throughout
construction activities.

      (3)   Construction routes are limited to City of Adelanto
designated truck routes.

      (4)   Water trucks or sprinkler systems shall be used during
clearing, grading, earth moving, excavation, or transportation of cut or
fill materials to prevent dust from leaving the site and to create a
crust after each day's activities cease. At a minimum, this would
include wetting down such areas in the later morning and after work is
completed for the day and whenever wind exceeds fifteen (15) miles per
hour.

      (5)   A person or persons shall be designated to monitor the dust
control program and to order increased watering as necessary to prevent
transport of dust off-site. The name and telephone number of such
person(s) shall be provided to the City.

      (6)   All grading equipment shall be kept in good working order
per factory specifications.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

17.90.030 Vibration

   (a)   Vibration Standard

   No ground vibration shall be allowed which can be felt without the
aid of instruments at or beyond the subject property line, nor will any
vibration be permitted which produces a particle velocity greater than
or equal to two-tenths of an inch (0.2") per second measured at or
beyond the lot line.

   (b)   Vibration Measurement

   Vibration velocity shall be measured with a seismograph or other
instrument capable of measuring and recording displacement and
frequency, particle velocity, or acceleration. Readings are to be made
at points of maximum vibration along any lot line next to a lot within a
residential, commercial, or industrial land use district.

   (c)   Exempt Vibrations

   Except as provided in the Municipal Code, the following sources of
vibration are not regulated by this Zoning Code:

      (1)   Motor vehicles subject to regulation under the California
Vehicle Code.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

17.90.040 Lighting

Except for residential light fixtures using less than a 75-watt bulb,
the following shall apply to all outdoor lighting fixtures:

   (a)   All on-site lighting shall be energy efficient, stationary and
directed away from adjoining properties and public rights-of-way.

   (b)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light is emitted above
the horizontal plane of the bottom of the light fixture.

   (c)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light above 0.5
footcandle spills over onto adjacent properties and rights-of-way. There
shall be no spillover (0.0 footcandle) onto adjacent residential used or
zoned properties.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

17.90.050 Smoke

No operation or activity is permitted to have operations which emit
excessive smoke, fumes, or dust, or which exceed the requirements or
levels as specified by the Air Quality Management District (AQMD).

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

17.90.060 Mechanical and Electrical Equipment

All such equipment, including air conditioners, antennas, pumps,
transformers, and heating and ventilating equipment, shall be located
and operated in a manner that does not disturb adjacent uses and
activities. Typical equipment (air conditioners, heat pumps, pool
filters, etc.) used for residential service installed and operated in
conformance with manufacturer's guidelines and the requirements of this
Zoning Code shall be exempt from this requirement.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

17.90.070 Electrical Interference

No operation or activity shall transmit, generate, or otherwise cause
any electrical, magnetic, or electromagnetic radiation disturbance that
affects the operation of any use, equipment, or process employed by any
use beyond the boundary of the site.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

17.90.080 Fire or Explosive Hazard

All operations or activities shall conform with the minimum requirements
of the Uniform Fire Code, as adopted and amended by the Adelanto Fire
Department, and with the provisions of Title 19 of the California Code
of Regulations.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

17.90.090 Liquid and Solid Wastes

There shall be no discharge at any point into any public or private
sewage disposal system or stream, or into the ground, of any liquid or
solid materials except in conformance with the regulations of the City
of Adelanto, and other responsible agencies.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

17.90.100 Heat or Cold

No operation or activity shall emit heat which would cause a temperature
increase or decrease on any adjacent property in excess of ten (10)
degrees Fahrenheit, whether the change is in the air, on the ground, or
in any structure.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

17.90.110 Odors

No operation or activity shall be permitted to emit odorous gases or
other odorous matter in such quantities as to be dangerous, injurious,
noxious, or otherwise objectionable and readily detectable without the
aid of instruments at or beyond the lot line.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

17.90.120 Fissionable or Radioactive Materials

No operation or activity shall be permitted which results at any time in
the release or emission of any fissionable or radioactive materials into
the atmosphere, the ground, or sewage systems.

[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

CHAPTER 17.91
GRADING REGULATIONS

   17.91.020   Scope of Regulations

   17.91.030   Grading Guidelines Applicable to All Projects

   17.91.050   Landscaping Adjacent to Open Space Areas

17.91.020 Scope of Regulations

Where the words "shall" or "will" are used in this Chapter, the stated
standards shall be mandatory. Where the words "should," "could," or
similar language is used, the provisions shall be considered guidelines
only, unless required by the City Engineer, Planning Commission, or City
Council through a discretionary approval process.

17.91.030 Grading Guidelines Applicable to All Projects

The grading standards listed in this Section shall be required of all
development projects, as approved by the City Engineer.

   (a)   The overall shape, height, and grade of any cut or fill slope
shall be designed to simulate the existing natural contours and scale of
the natural terrain of the site.

   (b)   The angle of the graded slope shall be gradually adjusted to
the angle of the natural terrain.

   (c)   Sharp, angular forms shall be rounded and smoothed to blend
with the natural terrain.

   (d)   Graded slopes shall be landscaped.

   (e)   Natural drainage courses shall be preserved whenever
practicable, consistent with the need to minimize flood and erosion
hazards. Stream banks shall be stabilized with landscaping, rock, or
other materials that harmonize with the natural setting and contain
flows and control erosion.

   (f)   During construction, measures shall be taken to control runoff
from construction sites consistent with National Pollution Discharge
Elimination Systems (NPDES) requirements imposed by the State Regional
Water Quality Control Board and Chapter 17.93 of this Code.

   (g)   Grading shall be phased so that prompt revegetation or
construction can control erosion. Where possible, only those areas which
will later be resurfaced, landscaped, or built on should be disturbed.
Resurfacing of parking lots and roadways shall take place as soon as
practicable and not at the completion of construction.

   (h)   Grading operations should be planned to avoid the rainy season.
Grading during the rainy season shall comply with the requirements of
Chapter 17.93 of this Code.

17.91.050 Landscaping Adjacent to Open Space Areas

The transition zone between development and the natural terrain shall be
landscaped to accomplish the following general functions as required:

   (a)   Screening or edge treatment, i.e., berming and planting to
buffer and soften the land use transition. Planting shall be consistent
with the character established for the area in which the project is
located.

CHAPTER 17.92
CONDITIONAL GRADING COMPLIANCE

   17.92.010   Purpose

   17.92.020   Scope

   17.92.030   Quality Control Engineer's Responsibilities

   17.92.040   Developer's Deposit

   17.92.050   Director of Public Works Authority

   17.92.060   Authority to Contract

   17.92.070   Noncompliance

17.92.010 Purpose

The purpose of the Chapter is to assure compliance with conditions of
approval on projects involving earthwork grading by providing continuous
on-site inspections as required by the Director of Public Works of
grading projects or developments for which adopted conditions of
approval require any specific or general features to be incorporated
into the earthwork, or restrict or limit the earthwork in any way which
is more restrictive than the grading provisions as prescribed in the
Uniform Building Code.

17.92.020 Scope

The provisions of this Chapter apply to projects which have been
conditionally approved and which involve grading in excess of five
thousand (5,000) cubic yards and when grading will occur on or adjacent
to 1) Natural pregraded slopes of fifteen percent (15%) or greater, or
2) property required for natural open space retention. The provisions
and conditions of this chapter are in addition to the provisions of the
Uniform Building Code and the recommendations of any site-specific
geotechnical investigation report on file with the Planning Department.

17.92.030 Quality Control Engineer's Responsibilities

The quality control engineer shall be on-site as determined necessary by
the Director of Public Works. This may include a series of inspections
or a continuous inspection.

The quality control engineer shall not be employed by, have any
relationship (financial or otherwise) to, or financial interest in the
developer, or any contracting, engineering or geotechnical companies
performing work on or providing services to the project being inspected.

The quality control engineer shall be responsible for inspection of the
work in progress to assure compliance with the conditions of approval
which may include, but are not limited to slope ratio, slope height,
slope location, areas of land disturbance and/or set provisions
regarding archeology, paleontology, landscaping, erosion control,
protection of native plants and animals, or any other conditions of
approval which will control or impact grading. The quality control
engineer shall report to and file reports after each inspection or (if
continuous inspections are necessary) weekly with the Director of Public
Works as required by the Director of Public Works.

17.92.040 Developer's Deposit

Prior to the issuance of the grading permit, the developer shall post a
deposit with the Director of Public Works in the amount and in the form
specified by the Director of Public Works. The deposit funds held in
trust shall be dispersed to the quality control engineer by the Director
of Public Works under the terms of the agreement between the City and
the quality control engineer to pay for the services of the quality
control engineer. The Director of Public Works will notify the developer
if and when it becomes apparent that the deposit will be exhausted and
the developer shall make such additional deposit as required by the
Director of Public Works. If the developer fails to submit such
additional deposit by the date specified by the Director of Public
Works, the Director of Public Works shall suspend or revoke the grading
permit, in accordance with the provisions of the Uniform Building Code
and order that work on the project cease. Upon completion of the work,
unused funds shall be returned to the developer within sixty (60) days
following the final grading and quality control inspection approvals.
Billings shall be in accordance with the City's accounting procedures.

17.92.050 Director of Public Works Authority

The Director of Public Works shall have authority to adopt reasonable
rules and regulations to clarify, interpret and enforce the provisions
of this Chapter. The Director of Public Works may approve variations
when such variations are not detrimental to the life, health, safety or
welfare of the public and are necessary because of particular or
peculiar circumstances, and will achieve the same level of protection as
the original condition. Variations of the environmental conditions shall
be applied for and processed in the same manner as other grading
variations.

17.92.060 Authority to Contract

For the purpose of the Chapter, the Director of Public Works may retain,
on behalf of the City, independent engineers to serve as the quality
control engineer on projects regulated by this Chapter using a standard
form contract approved by the City.

17.92.070 Noncompliance

The Director of Public Works is authorized and directed to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter and may use any legal means to affect such
enforcement, including suspending and/or revoking any permits that have
been issued by the Director of Public Works for the project, whether or
not the permits are for the earthwork grading, and withholding issuance
of any permits on the project for which applications have been filed.
The Director of Public Works is further authorized to expend any
remaining funds in the developer's deposit to obtain compliance
herewith.

CHAPTER 17.93
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL

   17.93.010   Purpose

   17.93.020   Scope

   17.93.030   General Provisions

   17.93.040   Project Design Considerations

   17.93.050   Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan

   17.93.060   Runoff Control

   17.93.070   Land Clearing

   17.93.080   Winter Operations

   17.93.090   Continued Responsibility

   17.93.100   Exemptions

   17.93.110   Variances

   17.93.120   Inspection and Compliance

   17.93.130   Applicable Laws and Regulations

   17.93.140   Appeals

17.93.010 Purpose

The purpose of this chapter is to eliminate and prevent accelerated
erosion that has led to, or could lead to, degradation of water quality,
loss of fish habitat, damage to property, loss of topsoil and vegetation
cover, disruption of water supply, increased danger from flooding and
the deposition of sediments and associated nutrients.

17.93.020 Scope

This chapter requires control of all existing and potential conditions
of human-induced accelerated erosion within all areas of the City. This
chapter sets forth required provisions for project planning, preparation
of erosion control plans, runoff control, land clearing and winter
operations and establishes procedures for administering those
provisions.

17.93.030 General Provisions

   (a)   No person shall cause or allow the continued existence of a
condition on any site that is causing or is likely to cause accelerated
erosion as determined by the Director of Public Works.

   (b)   Upon citation by the Director of Public Works, the responsible
person, shall take all appropriate measures to control erosion on the
site specified in the notification within the period of time determined
by the Director of Public Works.

   (c)   The Director of Public Works may require that a property owner
whose property has been cited in accordance with Subsection 17.93.030(b)
file and obtain approval of a Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan
and/or Permit in accordance with Section 17.93.050.

   (d)   The Director of Public Works may direct that any particular
operation, process or construction be stopped during periods of
inclement weather if he or she determines that erosion problems are not
adequately being controlled.

17.93.040 Project Design Considerations

The following shall be incorporated into design considerations of all
land use projects that are subject to the provisions of this chapter:

   (a)   Identify building and access construction envelopes and
identify areas which will not be disturbed by construction activity in
order to minimize disturbance of erodible areas of any proposed
development site.

   (b)   The preservation of existing streams and drainage courses in
their natural condition in order to retain their ability to accommodate
runoff and water drainage with a minimum of erosion.

   (c)   All appropriate measures that will facilitate the preparation
of an adequate Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan and/or Permit
measures as specified by this chapter.

17.93.050 Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan

   (a)   No land clearing or grading other than those activities listed
as exemptions by this chapter or as determined by the Director of Public
Works shall occur unless the said land clearing or grading is in
compliance with an approved Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan
and/or Permit issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

   (b)   A Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall be submitted and
approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter prior to the
issuance of building permits, soil erosion and sediment control permits,
grading permits or any other permit where, in the opinion of the
Director of Public Works, erosion can reasonably be expected to occur.

   (c)   Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plans shall include the
measures required by this chapter. Additional measures or modifications
of proposed measures may be required by the Director of Public Works
prior to the approval of a Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan.

   (d)   The Director of Public Works shall specify the application
requirement for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plans and Permits
including, but not limited to:

      (1)   Requirements for the submittal of plans and supporting data
as required by the Director of Public Works to accompany applications
for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plans and/or Permits;

      (2)   Licensing and/or certification requirements for those
preparing Soil Erosion and Sediment control Plan and/or Permit
submittal; and

      (3)   The incorporation and coordination of Soil Erosion Control
Plans and/or Permits with other plan requirements.

   (e)   If in the Director of Public Works’ sole discretion he/she
determines that no land disturbance will take place, the applicant shall
not be required to include a Soil Erosion and Sediment control Plan
and/or Permit. Such activities may include, but are not limited to:

      (1)   Change of use permits where there would be no expansion of
land-disturbing activities.

      (2)   Construction within an existing structure.

17.93.060 Runoff Control

Runoff from activities subject to a development permit shall be properly
controlled to prevent erosion. Erosion control and surface flow
containment facilities shall be constructed and maintained to prevent
discharge of sediment into surface waters or storm drainage systems. The
following measures shall be used for runoff control, and shall be
designed and maintained to control runoff from a ten-year storm:

   (a)   Where soils having a permeability rate of more than two inches
per hour, runoff in excess of predevelopment levels shall be retained on
the site by methods and in quantities approved by the Director of Public
Works. This may be accomplished through the use of infiltration basins,
percolation pits or trenches, or other suitable means. This requirement
may be waived where the Director of Public Works determines that high
groundwater, slope stability problems, etc., would inhibit or be
aggravated by on-site retention, or where retention will provide no
benefits for groundwater recharge or erosion control.

   (b)   Where soils have a permeability rate of two inches per hour or
less and on-site percolation is not feasible, runoff should be detained
or dispersed over nonerodible vegetated surfaces so that the runoff rate
does not exceed the predevelopment level. When the runoff rate must
exceed the predevelopment level, the runoff water shall be discharged
over nonerodible surfaces or at a velocity that will not erode. On-site
detention shall be required by the Director of Public Works unless the
applicant shows that the runoff which is created will not contribute to
downstream erosion, flooding or sedimentation.

   (c)   Any concentrated runoff which cannot be effectively dispersed
over nonerodible channels or conduits to the nearest drainage course
shall be contained within on-site percolation devices. Where water will
be discharged to natural ground or channels, appropriate energy
dissipators shall be installed to prevent erosion at the point of
discharge.

   (d)   Runoff from disturbed areas shall be detained or filtered by
berms, vegetated filter strips, catch basins, or other means as
necessary to prevent the escape of sediment from the disturbed area.

   (e)   No earth, organic or construction material shall be deposited
or placed where it may be directly carried into a stream, lake, marsh,
slough, lagoon or body of water.

   (f)   Where land-disturbing activities are in proximity to lakes or
natural watercourses, a buffer zone is required along the land-water
margin of sufficient width to confine visible siltation within
twenty-five (25%) per cent of the buffer zone nearest the
land-disturbing activities.

17.93.070 Land Clearing

Land clearing shall be kept to a minimum. Vegetation removal shall be
limited to that amount necessary for building, access, fire protection
and construction as shown on the approved Soil Erosion and Sediment
Control Plan or as allowed by the Director of Public Works through a
Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Permit.

   (a)   All disturbed surfaces shall be prepared and maintained to
control erosion and to establish vegetative growth compatible with the
area. This control shall consist of any one or a combination of the
following:

      (1)   Effective temporary planting such as rye grass, or some
other fast-germinating native seed, and/or mulching with straw,
chippings or other slope stabilization material.

      (2)   Permanent planting of compatible drought-resistant species
of ground cover, shrubs, trees, or other vegetation.

      (3)   Mulching, fertilizing, watering or other methods necessary
to establish new vegetation.

   (b)   The protection required by this section shall be installed
prior to calling for final approval of the project and at all times
between October 15 and April 15. Such protection shall be maintained for
at least one year or until permanent protection is established.

   (c)   No land clearing activities except as otherwise allowed by this
chapter shall take place prior to approval of the erosion control plan
and/or permit. Vegetation removal between October 15 and April 15 shall
not precede subsequent grading or construction activities by more than
fifteen (15) days. During the period of October 15 to April 15, erosion
and sediment control measures shall be in place.

17.93.080 Winter Operations

   (a)   The Director of Public Works shall only authorize the following
between October 15 and April 15 when it is found that such projects
comply with the provisions and are consistent with the purposes of this
chapter:

      (1)   Contiguous land clearing operations involving greater than
one acre in a one-year period of time; and

      (2)   Major grading operations (greater than 1,000 cubic yards).

         When construction will be delayed due to the limitation on
winter operations, the date for expiration of the permit shall be
extended by that amount of time that work is delayed by the requirements
of this chapter.

   (b)   The Director of Public Works shall stamp or attach the
following statement to all development permits and plans issued within
areas subject to the provisions of this chapter.

NOTICE: IF THE CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY WILL EXTEND INTO THE WINTER
OPERATIONS PERIOD (OCTOBER 15 THROUGH APRIL 15), ADDITIONAL SOIL EROSION
AND SEDIMENT CONTROL MEASURES MAY BE REQUIRED.

ANY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT WHICH IS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT AN APPROVED SOIL
EROSION CONTROL PLAN SHALL HAVE SUCH APPROVED PLAN AMENDED IF IT DOES
NOT COMPLY WITH THE PROVISIONS ESTABLISHED FOR WINTER OPERATION BY
SECTION 17.93.080 OF THE CITY OF ADELANTO ZONING CODE. ALL REQUIRED
WINTER OPERATION EROSION CONTROL DEVICES SHALL BE INSTALLED PRIOR TO
OCTOBER 15 FOR ONGOING CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS AND PRIOR TO ANY
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY FOR THOSE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS COMMENCING BETWEEN
OCTOBER 15 AND APRIL 15.

   (c)   The following winter operation measures shall be taken to
prevent accelerated erosion. Additional measures may be required by the
Director of Public Works, when determined to be necessary by field
inspection:

      (1)   Between October 15 and April 15, disturbed surfaces not
involved in the immediate operation shall be protected by mulching or
other effective means of soil protection;

      (2)   All roads and driveways shall have drainage facilities
sufficient to prevent erosion on or adjacent to the roadway or on
downhill properties. Erosion-resistant surfacing may include, but is not
limited to slag, crushed rock or natural soil when compacted to ninety
percent (90%) of maximum density as determined by Test D1557-58T of the
American Society for Testing and Materials, as amended from time to
time, for the top 12 inches;

      (3)   Runoff from a site shall be detained or filtered by berms,
vegetated filter strips, or catch basins to prevent the escape of
sediment from the site. These drainage controls shall be maintained by
the permittee or property owner as necessary to achieve their purpose
throughout the life of the project; and

      (4)   Erosion control measures shall be in place at all times and
by the end of each day's work on surfaces under construction.

17.93.090 Continued Responsibility

It shall be the responsibility of the property owner and the permittee
to ensure that accelerated erosion does not occur from any activity
during and after project construction. Additional measures, beyond those
specified in any approved soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan, may be
required by the Director of Public Works as deemed necessary to control
erosion after project completion.

17.93.100 General Exemptions

Conditions of accelerated erosion existing prior to adoption of this
chapter are not exempted. The intent of this section is not to
invalidate existing permits, but rather to prevent or mitigate
accelerated erosion. The following work is exempted from all provisions
of this chapter except Sections 17.93.030, General Provisions, and
17.93.140, Appeals:

   (a)   Agriculture Activities. Agricultural grading, routine
agricultural activities such as plowing, harrowing, discing, ridging,
listing, land planning and similar operations to prepare a field for a
crop, including routine clearing to maintain existing rangeland.

   (b)   Quarrying. Quarrying done pursuant to a valid conditional use
permit and is in compliance with the Surface Mining and Reclamation
Act..

   (c)   Septic Systems and Wells. Work done pursuant to a valid permit
for septic system installation and repair or well drilling; however,
Subsections 17.93.070 Land Clearing, and 17.93.080, Winter Operations,
shall apply, and sediment from these activities shall not be allowed to
enter any stream or body of water.

   (d)   Soil Tests. Routine testing of soil type and characteristics to
determine soil suitability, water percolation or similar soil tests;
provided, however, that sediment from these activities shall not be
allowed to enter any stream, drainage course or body of water.

   (e)   Resource Management. Clearing, fuel management, reforestation,
erosion control or other resource management programs carried out under
the auspices of a government agency which include appropriate erosion
control measures. Agencies should notify the Director of Public Works of
such projects.

   (f)   Land Clearing for Fire Protection. Land clearing and vegetation
clearance around structures as required by state and local fire codes
and fire prevention guidelines. Land clearing exempted under the
provisions of the subsection shall be limited to that required to comply
with applicable fire codes and regulations.

      Road construction and maintenance as well as installation of
utilities in accordance with plans and procedures approved by the City
Engineer or his designated representative are exempt from the provisions
of this chapter.

17.93.110 Variances

A request for a variance from the provisions of this chapter, the permit
conditions or the plan specifications may be approved, conditionally
approved or denied by the Director of Public Works. The Director of
Public Works may refer any variance request filed in accordance with the
provisions of this section to the appeal authority as defined in Section
17.93.140. A request for a variance must state in writing: the provision
from which a variance is sought, the proposed substitute provisions,
when it would apply, and an analysis of the effects of the variance if
granted. In granting a variance, the Director of Public Works shall be
guided by the following criteria:

   (a)   Special circumstances or conditions affecting the property;

   (b)   The necessity of the variance for the proper design and/or
function of a reasonable project for the property; and

   (c)   Adequate measures will be taken to ensure consistency with the
purpose of this chapter.

17.93.120 Inspection and Compliance

The Director of Public Works shall conduct inspections to ensure
compliance with this Chapter.

   (a)   Inspection. The following inspections may be performed by the
Director of Public Works:

      (1)   Pre-Site Inspection. To determine the potential for erosion
resulting from the proposed project;

      (2)   Operation Progress Inspections. To determine ongoing
compliance and the necessity of additional erosion control measures; and

      (3)   Final Inspection. To determine compliance with approved
plans and specifications.

   (b)   Notification. The permittee shall notify the Director of Public
Works at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the start of authorized
work on the project, and also nine (9) business hours prior to any
inspection requested by permittee or permittee's authorized agent.

   (c)   Right of Entry. The filing of an application for a development
permit constitutes a grant of permission for the City to enter the
permit area for the purpose of administering this chapter from the date
of the application to the termination of the erosion control maintenance
period.

17.93.130 Applicable Laws and Regulations

Any person doing work in conformance with this chapter must also abide
by all other applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations.
Where there is a conflict with other pre-existing City regulations, that
conflict shall be resolved before the project is allowed to proceed.

17.93.140 Appeals

Any property owner or other person aggrieved, or any person who believes
his/her interests are adversely affected by any act or determination of
the Director of Public Works under the provisions of this chapter, or by
any act or determination of any other authorized employee charged with
the administration and enforcement of this chapter, may appeal the act
or determination to the Planning Commission.

CHAPTER 17.95
HOME OCCUPATION PERMITS

   17.95.010   Purpose

   17.95.020   Permitted Home Occupation Uses

   17.95.030   Permit Required

   17.95.040   Procedure for Obtaining Permit

   17.95.050   Performance Standards

   17.95.060   Inspections

   17.95.070   Suspension/Revocation of Permit

   17.95.080   Penalties

17.95.010 Purpose

It is the purpose of this Chapter to:

   (a)   Recognize that a residential property owner or resident has a
limited right to conduct a non-obtrusive business from his/her
residence, and that the average neighbor will generally prefer to have
that business conducted in such a fashion that he/she is unaware of its
existence;

   (b)   Maintain the residential character of residential
neighborhoods;

   (c)   Prevent the use of home occupations from transforming a
residential neighborhood into a commercial one; and

   (d)   Encourage and promote efforts to reduce traffic congestion and
generation of pollutants by allowing and recognizing changing work
environments including telecommuting and work-at-home options.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]

17.95.020 Permitted Home Occupation Uses

   (a)   Home Occupations are uses that generally do not interrupt or
interfere with the general nature or residential character of the
residential neighborhood. The following uses are permitted home
occupations:

      (1)   Architectural services;

      (2)   Art restoration;

      (3)   Art studio;

      (4)   Catering service (one vehicle only);

      (5)   Consulting services;

      (6)   Contracting (administrative office only);

      (7)   Computer programming;

      (8)   Day Care/Babysitting (eight (8) or fewer children)

      (9)   Data processing;

      (10)   Direct sale product distribution (Amway, Avon, Jaffra,
Tupperware, Herbalife, etc.);

      (11)   Drafting and graphic services;

      (12)   Dressmaking, sewing, tailoring, contract sewing (one sewing
machine, no assembly);

      (13)   Engineering service;

      (14)   Financial planning;

      (15)   Flower arranging;

      (16)   Home crafts (including ceramics with kiln up to six (6)
cubic feet; silk screening. However, storage of flammable or hazardous
materials is prohibited. Proposed materials are subject to the review
and approval of the Adelanto Fire Department);

      (17)   Home photographer;

      (18)   House cleaning service;

      (19)   Insurance sales or broker;

      (20)   Interior design;

      (21)   Jewelry making; jeweler (storage of flammable or hazardous
materials is prohibited. Proposed materials are subject to the review
and approval of the Adelanto Fire Department);

      (22)   Laundry; ironing service;

      (23)   Locksmith;

      (24)   Mail order (not including retail sales from site);

      (25)   Private investigator;

      (26)   Sales representative (administrative office only);

      (27)   Swimming pool cleaning (storage of flammable or hazardous
materials is prohibited. Proposed materials are subject to the review
and approval of the Adelanto Fire Department);

      (28)   Telephone answering, switchboard, call forwarding;

      (29)   Typing, word-processing service;

      (30)   Writing.

   (b)   Any business or home occupation not specifically described
above or subsequently authorized by the Planning Director or Planning
Commission shall be prohibited.

   (c)   If a resident believes that his/her proposed Home Occupation is
similar to those described above and would not violate any performance
standard established herein, the resident may apply for a determination
by the Planning Director that the proposed Home Occupation is consistent
with the provisions of this Chapter. If the Planning Director concurs
with the applicant, the Planning Director shall approve the application
and issue the permit. If the Planning Director does not believe the
proposed Home Occupation is consistent with those home occupations
described in this Chapter or that it violates one or more performance
standards, the Planning Director shall deny the permit. The denial of
the permit by the Planning Director shall be subject to appeal first to
the Planning Commission and then to the City Council.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]

17.95.030 Permit Required

The establishment of a home occupation within a single-family or
multi-family neighborhood shall be regulated by a one-time application
and fee, as set forth by Resolution of the City Council for a Home
Occupation Permit.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]

17.95.040 Procedure for Obtaining Permit

   (a)   An application for a Home Occupation Permit shall be submitted
to the Planning Department on the appropriate application form.

   (b)   The Planning Director or his/her designee shall review the
application to determine if the use and home occupations are authorized
in the zone in which it is proposed, and if the proposed use and home
occupations otherwise meet the requirements of this Zoning Code.

   (c)   If the application is for an authorized home occupation and
use, and meets the requirements of this Zoning Code, the Planning
Director or his/her designee shall issue the permit.

   (d)   If the use or home occupation are not authorized, or the
application and/or proposed use does not meet the requirements of this
Zoning Code, the Planning Director shall deny the permit. The decision
of the Planning Director shall be subject to appeal first to the
Planning Commission and then to the City Council.

   (e)   Unless suspended or revoked by the City, approval of the Home
Occupation Permit is for the lifetime of the Home Occupation. Renewal of
a Business License as required by the City shall be the only necessary
action that the permit-holder will need to continue the Home Occupation.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]

17.95.050 Performance Standards

The following performance standards shall apply to all business uses of
a single-family or multi-family residence and to all Home Occupations
and shall be in effect at all times:

   (a)   All businesses and Home Occupations shall obtain and have
renewed annually a Business License through the City of Adelanto.

   (b)   Home Occupation uses shall be incidental to the primary use of
the structure as a residential use and shall not detract from the
residential character of the neighborhood. No more than five hundred
(500) square feet of the floor area of the dwelling unit may be used in
connection with a Home Occupation or for storage purposes in connection
with a Home Occupation.

   (c)   Only individuals permanently residing on the premises shall be
employed in the Home Occupation.

   (d)   There shall be no exterior indication of the home occupation or
variation from the residential character of the principal building.

   (e)   There shall be no exterior operations, storage, or display of
materials to be used in conjunction with a Home Occupation.

   (f)   There shall be no signs, banners, or flags displayed which
would be visible from outside the dwelling unit.

   (g)   There shall be no process, procedure, substance, or chemical
used which is hazardous to public health, safety, morals, or welfare.

   (h)   Visitors, customers, or deliveries associated with the
permitted home occupation use shall not shall not exceed a five (5)
trips per day.

   (i)   No home occupation activity shall produce noxious matter,
vibrations, glare, dust, electrical interference, or perceptible noise
beyond the lot line.

   (j)   No advertisement shall be placed in any media containing the
address of the property.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]

17.95.060 Inspections

The Planning Director or his/her designee shall have the right at any
time, upon reasonable request, to enter and inspect the premises.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]

17.95.070 Suspension/Revocation of Permit

   (a)   Upon a showing of probable cause by City Code Enforcement Staff
of a violation of this Chapter or the conditions of operations by a Home
Occupation permit-holder, the Planning Director/designee may issue an
order suspending the Home Occupation Permit pending a hearing before the
Planning Commission. The Director shall cause notice of the suspension
order to be served on the permit-holder by regular first-class U.S. mail
and by posting the same on the property where the Home Occupation is
conducted.

   (b)   Whenever the Planning Director has issued a suspension order,
or whenever the Planning Director suspects a violation, but the
requisite showing has not been made, the Planning Director shall cause a
noticed hearing to consider the revocation of a Home Occupation permit
to be held by the Planning Commission within forty-five (45) days of the
notice. Notice of the hearing shall be mailed to the permit-holder, any
party complaining of the violation, and to all adjoining residents and
property owners.

   (c)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Planning Commission may
revoke the Home Occupation Permit, or order the termination of the
suspension or revocation of the permit and order reinstatement thereof.
The decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City
Council.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]

17.95.080 Penalties

   (a)   It shall be unlawful and an infraction for any person, firm, or
corporation to violate, disobey, omit, neglect, refuse to comply with,
or resist the enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter. Such
behavior shall subject the violator, upon conviction, to a fine of not
more than one hundred dollars ($100) for each offense. Each day that a
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.

   (b)   In addition to subsection (a) above, any violation of the
provisions of this Chapter or the conditions of operation of the permit
are and shall be a public nuisance subject to abatement by the City
through obtaining a court injunction from a court of competent
jurisdiction.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]

CHAPTER 17.100
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

   17.100.010   General Procedures

   17.100.020   Application Procedures

   17.100.030   Fees and Deposits

   17.100.040   Notice of Public Hearings

   17.100.050   Hearings and Effect of Actions

   17.100.060   Appeals

   17.100.070   City Council Review of Planning Commission Actions

   17.100.080   Expirations, Extensions, and Revocations

   17.100.090   Ministerial Review

17.100.010 General Procedures

   (a)   Introduction

      This Chapter establishes the regulations for the effective and
efficient implementation of the Adelanto Zoning Code. This Chapter
contains the procedures for discretionary review of development
applications, criteria for acceptance of applications for discretionary
actions, standards for processing of applications, and requirements for
the notice and conduct of public hearings. The provisions of this
Chapter, used in combination with the provisions of subsequent Chapters
17.115 through 17.165, provide for a system of development review that
is open to the public and responsive to the needs of the community.

   (b)   Types of Review Procedures in Effect in Adelanto

      Table 100-1 outlines the types of review procedures in effect in
Adelanto.

   (c)   Responsible Decision-Making Bodies

      Three (3) hearing bodies shall make decisions on the procedures
authorized by the Adelanto Municipal Code as follows:

      (1)   City Council - The City Council shall be responsible for the
decisions listed in Table 100-1.

      (2)   Planning Commission - The Planning Commission shall be
responsible for the decisions listed in Table 100-1.

      (3)   Planning Director - The Planning Director shall be
responsible for the decisions listed in Table 100-1.

TABLE 100-1
REVIEW AUTHORITY

Type of Action

Planning Director or Designee

Planning Commission

City Council

Authority to Approve or Deny

Advisory to Planning Commission

Authority Approve or Deny

Advisory to City Council Only

Public Hearing Required

Public Hearing Required

No Public Hearing Required

Tentative Tract Maps, Tentative Parcel Maps and associated Design Review

∙

∙

∙

Final Subdivision Map for Recordation

∙

(Note: Final Maps are processed through the Public Works Department)

(Public Works Dept. Processes)

Reversion to Acreage

∙

Lot Line Adjustments

∙

(Note: Lot Line Adjustments are processed through the Public Works
Department)

(Public Works Dept.)

Lot or Parcel Merger

∙

(Note: Lot or Parcel Mergers are processed through the Public Works
Department)

(Public Works Dept.)

Extension of Time for Tentative Maps and Location and Development Plans

∙

∙

Certificate of Land Use Compliance

∙

Minor Variance- Section 17.140.020

∙

Major Variance- Section 17.135.020

∙

∙

∙

Minor Conditional Use Permit, Section 17.132.020, Appendix A (CUPm)

∙

Conditional Use Permit- Section 17.130.020, Appendix A (CUP)

∙

∙

∙

Minor Location and Development Plan (LDPm) and associated Design Review

   Residential- Single-family 1-4 units, second units, Multi-family 1-6
units, hangers less than 10,000 square feet

∙

 

Notes:

1)   All decisions of the Planning Director may be appealed to the
Planning Commission.

2)   All decisions of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the
City Council.

Type of Action

Planning Director or Designee

Planning Commission

City Council

Authority to Approve or Deny

Advisory to Planning Commission

Authority Approve or Deny

Advisory to City Council Only

Public Hearing Required

Public Hearing Required

No Public Hearing Required

Type of Action

Planning Director or Designee

Planning Commission

City Council

Authority to Approve or Deny

Advisory to Planning Commission

Authority Approve or Deny

Advisory to City Council Only

Public Hearing Required

Public Hearing Required

No Public Hearing Required

   Commercial

   Maximum 50 percent increase in the gross floor area of the existing
structure before the addition, or 2,500 square feet of gross floor area,
whichever is less.

∙

   1-10,000 square feet of gross floor area (if all public services or
facilities available), maximum 4 buildings on a maximum of 5 acres, no
habitat, rare, or endangered species

∙

   Industrial

   Maximum 50 percent increase in the gross floor area floor area of the
existing structure before the addition, or 2,500 square feet of gross
floor area, whichever is less.

∙

   Less than 10,000 square feet of gross floor area (if all public
services or facilities available), maximum 4 buildings on a maximum of 5
acres

∙

Location and Development Plan Approval (LDP) and associated Design
Review

   Residential

   Multi-family 7 or more units, 2 or more buildings

∙

∙

   Commercial

   10,000 square feet of gross floor area or more, more than 4
buildings, more than 5 acres, or if all public services/utilities not
available

∙

∙

∙

   Industrial

   10,000 square feet of gross floor area or more, more than 4
buildings, or more than 5 acres, or if all public services/utilities not
available

∙

∙

∙

Temporary Use Permit

∙

 

Notes:

1)   All decisions of the Planning Director may be appealed to the
Planning Commission.

2)   All decisions of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the
City Council.

Type of Action

Planning Director or Designee

Planning Commission

City Council

Authority to Approve or Deny

Advisory to Planning Commission

Authority Approve or Deny

Advisory to City Council Only

Public Hearing Required

Public Hearing Required

No Public Hearing Required

Type of Action

Planning Director or Designee

Planning Commission

City Council

Authority to Approve or Deny

Advisory to Planning Commission

Authority Approve or Deny

Advisory to City Council Only

Public Hearing Required

Public Hearing Required

No Public Hearing Required

Zoning Code Amendment/Change of Zone (See also Section 17.150.020
Location and Development Plan Approval)

∙

∙

∙

∙

Specific Plans and Specific Plan Amendments

∙

∙

∙

∙

General Plan Amendments

∙

∙

∙

∙

CEQA: Negative Declarations and EIRs

∙

CEQA documents are approved/certified by the body having decision-making
authority on the proposed project, as defined in this Section.

Redevelopment Projects, Plans, and Reports

∙

∙

∙

∙

Agricultural Preserves and Amendments

∙

∙

∙

∙

Sign Program

∙

∙

Sign Plans- (individual signs/ sign copy)

∙

Landscape Plans

∙

Fence and Wall Plans

∙

 

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]

Notes:

1)   All decisions of the Planning Director may be appealed to the
Planning Commission.

2)   All decisions of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the
City Council.

17.100.020 Application Procedures

   (a)   Applications Required

      Applications shall be required on forms provided by the Planning
Department for all land use actions, subject to the provisions of this
Zoning Code. Such applications shall identify all requirements for
submittal. The accuracy of all information, maps, and lists submitted
shall be the responsibility of the applicant. The Planning Director may
also require at his/her discretion the submission of additional
information as needed for a particular project. The Director or his
designee may reject any application that is incomplete.

   (b)   Who May Initiate an Application

      Public review proceedings may be initiated by the City Council,
Planning Commission, or any person who is able to demonstrate a legal
vested interest in the proposed application. The authorized agent of any
person with a legal vested interest may also initiate an application.
The Planning Director may request proof of ownership or authorization to
apply prior to the acceptance of any application.

   (c)   Acceptance of Applications by the Planning Director

      The Planning Director or his/her designee shall accept
applications with all required items made by those persons with standing
to make such an application upon receipt of fees prescribed by
Resolution of the City Council. Pursuant to the California Government
Code, Section 65943, no later than thirty (30) days after an application
has been received, the Director shall determine whether the submitted
application materials are complete and shall notify the applicant in
writing of his decision. No application shall be considered complete
until any and all additional information required by the Director is
received.

   (d)   Concurrent Applications

      When one or more land use decisions are required for a single
project, all required applications may be filed concurrently.

   (e)    Withdrawal of an Application

      Any application or petition for a land use action may be withdrawn
at any time prior to a public hearing by filing a written request for
withdrawal with the Planning Director. The request for withdrawal shall
be signed by all persons who signed the original application, or their
designated agents or successors. Any such application or petition may be
withdrawn after commencement of a hearing thereon, with approval of the
hearing body.

   (f)   Inactive Applications

      Any application which has been inactive for six (6) months or
longer, shall be automatically deemed withdrawn. No notice, public
hearing, or other proceeding is required for such inactive applications
to be deemed automatically withdrawn.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]

17.100.030 Fees and Deposits

   (a)   Fees Established by Resolution

      Each applicant for a land use action authorized by this Zoning
Code shall pay those fees and costs as established by Resolution of the
City Council.

   (b)   Refunds

      If an application is withdrawn prior to public hearing, the
applicant shall be entitled to a refund of any remaining deposit in
accordance with City policy.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]

17.100.040 Notice of Public Hearings

   (a)   Notice Required

      Unless otherwise required, no less than ten (10) days prior to the
date of a hearing on applications for a land use action requiring public
hearing, as specified in Table 100-1, the Planning Director shall give
notice of the scheduled hearing. The notice shall include the time,
place, identity of the hearing body or officer, nature of the
application, and the general location of the property under
consideration.

   (b)   Method of Noticing

      The Director shall observe the noticing requirements set forth as
follows:

      (1)    A copy of the notice shall be posted in two (2) places in
the City of Adelanto.

      (2)   The notice shall be mailed first-class postage prepaid to
the following parties: applicant; property owner or the owner's agent;
all persons whose names and addresses appear on the latest available
assessment roll of the County of San Bernardino as owners of property
within a distance of seven hundred feet (700’) for subdivisions of 20
acres or more, or for all other projects, within a distance of three
hundred feet (300’), from the exterior boundaries of the property, or
properties, for which the application is filed; anyone filing a written
request for notification; and, to such other persons whose property
might, in the Director's judgment, be affected by the establishment of
the use, development, or zone requested.

      (3)   If the Director finds that the posting and mailing of
notices prescribed elsewhere in this Section may not give sufficient
notice to the required property owners, then additional notices shall be
posted. Such additional notices may be posted at locations deemed best
suited to reach the attention of, and inform, those persons who may be
affected.

      (4)   When the proposed use or amendment affects more than one
thousand (1,000) property owners, the City may provide notice by placing
a display advertisement in a newspaper circulated within the City of
Adelanto.

      (5)   The notice shall be sent to public officers, departments,
bureaus, or agencies which are determined by the Director to be affected
by the application or otherwise appropriate. In the case of a hearing
for the manufacture or storage of hazardous materials, such notification
must include the Fire Chief.

      (6)   When a Negative Declaration or Environmental Impact Report
is recommended for adoption pursuant to Section 21080(C), 21083, 21091
of the State Public Resources Code, notice of the hearing shall be given
as set forth in Section 21091 of the Public Resources Code, which sets
forth minimum review periods for Negative Declaration and Environmental
Impact Reports.

   (c)   Evidence of Notice

      When notice of a hearing is given pursuant to this Chapter, the
following documentation shall be deemed sufficient to serve as proof
that such notice was given:

      (1)   Publication - An affidavit of publication by the newspaper
in which the publication was made.

      (2)   Mail or other delivery - An affidavit or proof of
mailing/delivery must be made, showing, at a minimum, the date or dates
of mail/delivery and the list of persons and groups to which the
mail/delivery was made.

      (3)   Posting - An affidavit or proof of posting must show the
date or dates of posting and the location at which the posting was made.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]

17.100.050 Hearings and Effect of Actions

   (a)   Scheduling of Hearings

      For applications or proposals requiring public hearing before the
Planning Commission, the Secretary of the Planning Commission shall set
the date and time of the hearing. For applications or proposals
requiring public hearing before the City Council, the City Clerk shall
set the date and time of the hearing. Notices shall include the
information required by the Adelanto Municipal Code.

   (b)   Right of Persons to Comment

      (1)   During any public hearing, the applicant for the subject
application shall have the following rights:

         ·   The right to be represented;

         ·   The right to provide testimony under oath;

         ·   The right to present evidence; and,

         ·   The right to cross examine opposing witnesses.

      (2)   All other persons shall have the right to comment on any
relevant aspect of the application under consideration.

   (c)    Action of Hearing Body and Continuance of Hearings

      Following the completion of testimony at a public hearing, action
shall be taken to approve, conditionally approve, deny, continue, or
take under advisement the subject of the public hearing.

      If the action is taken to continue or take the matter under
advisement, before adjournment or recess, the person presiding at such
public hearing shall publicly announce the time and place at which the
hearing will be continued. No further notice shall be required.

   (d)    Conditions May Be Imposed

      The Planning Director or designee (for those cases the Planning
Director has authority to approve or deny), Planning Commission, and the
City Council shall have the authority to impose reasonable and necessary
conditions on a development to ensure that the development complies with
the provisions of this Zoning Code and the policies of the General Plan.

   (e)    Notice of Decision

      In accordance with the Adelanto Municipal Code, following the
rendering of a decision on an application, a copy of the decision and
the findings associated with the decision shall be mailed to the
applicant at the address shown on the application. In the case of any
Variance or Conditional Use Permit, a copy of the decision and findings
shall also be mailed to all persons of record (including name, address
and city) who personally appeared at one or more public hearings in
opposition to the decision.

   (f)    Land Use Action Denial - Reapplication

      (1)   Whenever an application (or a portion of an application) has
been denied and all appeals provided in this Chapter are exhausted, no
new application for the same or similar request may be accepted within
forty five (45) days of the denial.

      (2)   Any application which is resubmitted pursuant to Section
17.100.050(1) shall be considered as a new project, subject to the same
review and approval process as the original application. Where
appropriate, the environmental documentation provided for the original
application may be applied to the new application.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]

17.100.060 Appeals

   (a)    Authority to Appeal

      (1)   All actions and decisions of the Planning Director
authorized by this Zoning Code may be appealed to the Planning
Commission. All such appeals shall be filed with the Planning Commission
secretary.

      (2)   All actions of the Planning Commission authorized by this
Zoning Code may be appealed to the City Council. All appeals shall be
filed in writing with the City Clerk.

      (3)   Any person may appeal a decision of Planning Director or
Planning Commission in accordance with the terms of this Chapter.

      (4)   The City Council shall be the final approval authority for
all actions. Applications which are denied by the City Council are not
subject to appeal, but may be resubmitted pursuant to Section
17.100.050, above.

   (b)    Time Limit for an Appeal Filing

      All appeals must be filed within ten (10) working days of the date
of the final action by the Planning Director or Planning Commission.

   (c)   Fees

      Persons filing appeals shall pay all applicable fees in effect at
the time of the appeal as established by Resolution of the City Council.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]

17.100.070 City Council Review of Planning Commission Actions

The City Council is specifically empowered to review all actions of the
Planning Commission for any reason. Appeals of Planning Commission
decisions by the City Council shall be subject to the following
requirements:

   ·   Appeals of actions of the Planning Commission by the City Council
must be filed with the City Clerk within ten (10) working days of the
Commission’s action.

   ·   Appeals pursuant to this section must be filed jointly by any two
(2) City Council members, who may request that an item be called for
review by the City Council.

   ·   The City Council shall review the same project as the Planning
Commission.

   ·   Items recalled by the City Council shall be subject to the same
type of public action (i.e., action item without public hearing or
public hearing item) and public noticing at the City Council as at the
Planning Commission.

   ·   Appealed items shall be scheduled for the next available City
Council meeting.

   ·   No fee shall be required when an item is called for review by
City Council members in conformance with the requirements of this
section.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]

17.100.080 Expirations, Extensions, and Revocations

   (a)   Expirations

      Any Variance, Conditional Use Permit, or Temporary Use Permit
which is not exercised within the time specified in the grant of
approval or, if no time is specified, within two (2) years of the
effective date of such approval, shall be terminated. For purposes of
this Section, "exercised" means the commencement of construction
activity and/or establishment of the use or activity authorized by the
grant of approval.

   (b)   Extensions

      The Planning Commission may extend such approval for a period of
time not to exceed two (2) years, provided an application requesting the
extension is filed prior to the original expiration date.

   (c)   Revocations

      (1)   Authority

         The Planning Commission, or the City Council on appeal, may,
after required public hearings have been held and action has been taken
in the manner prescribed in this Zoning Code, revoke or modify any
Variance, Conditional Use Permit, or Temporary Use Permit, or revoke the
status of a legal nonconforming use or structure, on one or more of the
following grounds:

         (A)   That the approval was obtained by fraud, or that the
applicant made a materially false representation on the subject
application; or

         (B)    That the Variance, Conditional Use Permit, Temporary Use
Permit, or legal nonconforming status is being or recently has been
exercised contrary to, or in violation of, the terms or conditions of
such approval or other authorization; or

         (C)    That the Variance, Conditional Use Permit, Temporary Use
Permit, or legal nonconforming status is being or recently has been
exercised in violation of any statute, law, or regulation; or

         (D)    That the use for which approval was granted, or other
use(s) not directly related, is exercised in a manner detrimental to the
public health and safety or in a manner which constitutes a nuisance.

         (E)   Violations of any conditions of approval for any permit
shall be addressed in the same manner as violations of the Code.

      (2)   Proceedings

         (A)   Hearing Required

            The Planning Commission secretary shall schedule a hearing
before the Planning Commission to consider the revocation, pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code. Noticing shall be
required only of the owner or owners of the property affected by the
variance, permit, or nonconformity, notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 17.100.040.

         (B)   Findings Required

            In acting to revoke a Variance, Conditional Use Permit,
Temporary Use Permit, or legal nonconforming status of a use or
structure, the Planning Commission shall make written findings citing
the reasons for the revocation.

      (3)   Effective Date

         (A)   A revocation of a Variance, Conditional Use Permit,
Temporary Use Permit, or legal nonconforming status of a use or
structure shall not become effective until the Planning Commission has
adopted a Resolution revoking such approval or status, and until the
time period to appeal the Commission's decision to the City Council has
lapsed with no appeal being filed.

         (B)   In the event an appeal of the Planning Commission's
decision is appropriately filed, the revocation will become effective
when the City Council adopts a Resolution revoking such approval or
status.

         (C)   The City Clerk shall notify the property owner in writing
of the Planning Commission's and City Council's action.

      (4)   Right of Appeal

         The property owner, applicant, or other interested party may
appeal to the City Council a decision of the Planning Commission to
revoke or not revoke a Variance, Conditional Use Permit, Temporary Use
Permit, or legal nonconforming status of a use or structure. The appeal
shall be filed and considered in accordance with the provisions of the
Adelanto Municipal Code.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]

17.100.090   Ministerial Review

Housing development projects that are required to undergo a ministerial
review procedure by provisions of this Zoning Code or state law (but not
including projects that are solely the development of accessory dwelling
units) shall follow the procedures set forth in this Section unless
modified by state law. Exception: for projects undergoing ministerial
review due to housing element law (e.g., in AHO zone), any subdivision
of a site shall be subject to all laws, including, but not limited to,
the local government ordinance implementing the Subdivision Map Act,
thus the subdivision action is not subject to the procedures in this
section.

   (a)   Application

      An application for Location and Development Plan shall be
submitted for projects subject to this Section. An additional
application for design review may also be required. Projects subject to
this Section shall not require a conditional use permit, planned unit
development permit, or other discretionary local government review or
approval that would constitute a “project” for purposes of Division 13
(commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code, also known
as the California Environmental Quality Act.

   (b)   No Public Hearing

      A public hearing, including public hearing notice, is not
required.

   (c)   Decision Authority

      The Planning Director or Designee has the authority to approve or
deny the Location and Development Plan and associated Design Review.

   (d)   Decision Criteria

      The findings that are listed as a basis of approval or denial of a
Location and Development Plan shall not be used. Instead, the decision
maker shall determine whether the project is consistent with the
objective, quantifiable, written development standards, plans, and
policies applicable to the project. The decision maker, in approving a
project may impose conditions as are reasonably necessary to ensure the
project is consistent with the objective, quantifiable, written
development standards, plans, and policies applicable to the project.

   (e)   Environmental Review

      As the decision maker exercises little or no discretion, an
approval of an application subject to the procedures in this section is
not a “project” for the purposes of the California Environmental Quality
Act. A project subject to this section may be subject to mitigation
measures or other environmental requirements.

   (f)   No Appeal or Review

      The decision on the application is not subject to appeal or to
review by a higher body. Within ten (10) working days of a decision, any
person believing the decision includes an error may submit to the
decision maker or designee a request to revise the decision. The
decision maker or designee may issue a revised decision within thirty
(30) calendar days of the request.

[Ord. No. 652, Exhibit 1, 7/24/24.]

CHAPTER 17.110
GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENTS

   17.110.010   Initiation

   17.110.020   Proceedings

   17.110.030   Findings Required

   17.110.040   Associated Project Required

   17.110.050   Technical Revisions and Updates to the General Plan

   17.110.060   City-Initiated General Plan Amendments

17.110.010 Initiation

Amendments to the General Plan text or land use policy map may be
initiated as provided for in Section 17.100.020 of this Zoning Code.

17.110.020 Proceedings

Applications to amend the General Plan shall be processed as provided
for in the California Government Code, Sections 65350-653517.

17.110.030 Findings Required

Prior to approving or recommending approval of a General Plan amendment,
the responsible hearing body shall make the following findings:

   (a)    That the proposed amendment is in the public interest, and
that there will be a community benefit resulting from the amendment;

   (b)    That the proposed amendment is consistent with the goals,
policies, and objectives of the General Plan;

   (c)    That the proposed amendment will not conflict with provisions
of the Zoning Code, subdivision regulations, or any applicable specific
plan; and

   (d)    In the event that the proposed amendment is a change to the
land use policy map, that the amendment will not adversely affect
surrounding properties.

17.110.040 Associated Project Required

No private application for a General Plan amendment will be accepted
unless accompanied by a development proposal for all or a portion of the
area included in the General Plan amendment. A development proposal may
include a, a Tentative Tract Map, or a Location and Development Plan
Application.

17.110.050 Technical Revisions and Updates to the General Plan

The General Plan may be revised or updated by the Planning Department to
include new information, changes in information (such as population or
housing unit counts) and the like, at the discretion of the Planning
Director. Such revisions and updates may not affect any of the
following:

   (a)   The intent or direction of written policy

   (b)   Mapped land use policy

   (c)   Mapped circulation policy

   All such revisions shall be submitted to the Planning Commission as
an informational item. The Planning Commission shall be empowered to
revoke any such revisions.

17.110.060 City-Initiated General Plan Amendments

The City may initiate amendments to the General Plan, including the Land
Use Policy Map. In the case of City-initiated General Plan amendments,
no associated project is required.

CHAPTER 17.115
ZONING CODE AND ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS

   17.115.010   Initiation

   17.115.020   Proceedings - Planning Commission

   17.115.030   Proceedings - City Council

   17.115.040   Findings Required

17.115.010 Initiation

Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 17.100.020 of this Zoning
Code, initiation of amendments to the zoning map or modification of the
provisions of this Zoning Code shall be as follows:

   (a)   By Resolution of intention of the City Council; or

   (b)   By Resolution of intention of the Planning Commission; or

   (c)   By application by one or more property owners of property
proposed for rezoning. Such application shall be filed as required by
Section 17.100.020. Furthermore, the application shall explain the
reason of public necessity, convenience, health, safety, or general
welfare requiring such amendment.

17.115.020 Proceedings - Planning Commission

   (a)   Upon the acceptance of a completed application or upon the
adoption of a Resolution as described in Section 17.115.010, the
Planning Director or his/her designee shall review the application for
conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code. The Director shall
prepare a recommendation and forward the recommendation, application, or
resolution and other relevant materials to the Planning Commission
secretary. The secretary shall schedule the matter for public hearing
before the Planning Commission pursuant to the provisions of this Zoning
Code.

   (b)   The Planning Commission shall hear and take action upon the
application or Resolution pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 17.100.
The Commission may continue the hearing from time to time, and no
additional notification shall be required.

   (c)   The Commission shall act by Resolution to recommend approval,
approval with modifications, or denial of the application or resolution.

   (d)   The Commission's Resolution shall be filed with the City Clerk
not more than five (5) days following the Commission's final action.

17.115.030 Proceedings - City Council

   (a)   Upon receipt of a Planning Commission Resolution recommending
denial of a zone change or amendment, the City Clerk shall place the
Commission's resolution on an agenda of the City Council for
consideration within 20 days of the Resolution filing. The Commission's
decision will be considered final and no further action by the Council
will be required unless, within 10 days after the item appears on the
Council's agenda, an appeal is filed pursuant to Section 17.100.060 of
this Zoning Code, or unless the City Council sets the matter for Council
hearing. All such hearings shall be noticed and conducted as provided
for in Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.

   (b)   Upon receipt of the Resolution of the Planning Commission
recommending approval of a zone change or amendment, the City Clerk
shall set the matter for hearing before the City Council as provided for
in Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.

   (c)   The City Council shall hear and take action upon the
application or resolution pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 17.100
of this Zoning Code.

   (d)   The Council shall act to approve, conditionally approve, or
deny the application for a zone change or amendment.

17.115.040 Findings Required

The Planning Commission and City Council shall be required to make the
following findings of fact before approving a zone change or Zoning Code
amendment:

   (a)    That the proposed amendment is consistent with the goals,
policies, and objectives of the General Plan; and

   (b)   That a proposed zone change will not adversely affect
surrounding properties.

CHAPTER 17.120
SPECIFIC PLAN ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT

   17.120.010   Purpose

   17.120.020   Application Requirements

   17.120.030   Amendments

   17.120.040   Changes to Specific Plans Requiring an Amendment

   17.120.050   Associated Project Required

   17.120.060   Technical Revisions and Updates to a Specific Plan

   17.120.070   City-Initiated Specific Plan Amendments

17.120.010 Purpose

The City recognizes that certain large properties in Adelanto may
benefit from focused planning efforts wherein infrastructure, land use
relationships, land use intensities, public service needs, and resource
protection goals can be carefully examined and planned in a
comprehensive manner. The specific plan provides a mechanism to carry
out such planning efforts. The purpose of this Chapter is to establish
uniform procedures and guidelines for specific plans prepared pursuant
to Title 7, Division 1, Chapter 3, Article 8 of the California
Government Code.

17.120.020 Application Requirements

   (a)   A minimum project size of twenty (20) acres is required for a
specific plan.

   (b)   A pre-application meeting with the Planning Director is
required prior to the formal submission of a specific plan application.
The purpose of the meeting is to review with the applicant the City's
requirements for specific plan content, applicable policies,
infrastructure needs, and other information as determined by the
Planning Director.

   (c)   In addition to a formal application completed pursuant to the
requirements of Section 17.100.020 of this Zoning Code, the applicant
shall submit a draft specific plan containing text and diagrams
containing all information specified in Sections 65451 and 65452 of the
Government Code, as well as to any other information, standards,
requirements, etc., required by the City.

17.120.030 Amendments

Amendments to a specific plan shall be processed similar to a General
Plan amendment, as provided for in Chapter 17.110 of this Zoning Code.

17.120.040 Changes to Specific Plans Requiring an Amendment

The following changes to specific plans shall require an amendment to
the specific plan:

   (a)   Changes to the text or maps of a specific plan other than the
addition of new information that does not change the effect of any
regulation.

   (b)   Changes in specific plan land use district boundaries.

   (c)   Increase or decrease in the specified density range for any
area.

   (d)   Changes in standards or regulations, including landscaping and
design standards and development regulations.

17.120.050 Associated Project Required

No private application for a Specific Plan amendment will be accepted
unless accompanied by a development proposal for all or a portion of the
area included in the Specific Plan amendment. A development proposal may
include a Tentative Tract Map, or a Location and Development Plan
Approval.

17.120.060 Technical Revisions and Updates to Specific Plans

   A Specific Plan may be revised or updated by the Planning Department
to include new information, changes in information (such as population
or housing unit counts) and the like, at the discretion of the Planning
Director. Such revisions and updates may not affect any of the
following:

   (a)   The intent or direction of written policy

   (b)   Mapped land use policy

   All such revisions shall be submitted to the Planning Commission as
an informational item. The Planning Commission shall be empowered to
revoke any such revisions.

17.120.070 City-Initiated Specific Plan Amendments

The City may initiate amendments to any portion of any Specific Plan. In
the case of City-initiated Specific Plan amendments, no associated
project is required.

CHAPTER 17.130
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT

   17.130.010   Purpose

   17.130.020   Application Requirements

   17.130.030   Conditional Use Permit (CUP) Proceedings

   17.130.040   Finality of Commission Decision and Effective Date

   17.130.050   Basis for Approval or Denial of Conditional Use Permit

   17.130.060   Inactive Applications and Expiration of Permits

   17.130.070   Conditional Use Permit Approval Attached to the Property

   17.130.080   Reservation of Right to Review Conditional Use Permit -
Changed Circumstances

   17.130.090   Revocation

17.130.010 Purpose

   (a)   The City recognizes that certain uses, due to the nature of
use, intensity, or size, require special review to determine if the use
proposed, or the location of that use, is compatible with surrounding
uses, or, through the imposition of development and use conditions, can
be made compatible with surrounding uses. The Conditional Use Permit is
provided for this purpose.

   (b)   The City has established two types of Conditional Use Permit
(CUP) applications- CUP and Minor CUPs (identified as CUPm in Appendix
A).

17.130.020 Application Requirements

Applications for Conditional Use Permits may be submitted only for those
uses specified as conditional uses (CUP and CUPm) in the applicable
zoning district in Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zoning District.
The proposed project shall comply with all applicable development
standards, unless a separate Variance application is filed, and reviewed
and approved. Conditional Use Permit and Variance applications may be
processed concurrently. A Conditional Use Permit is not a substitute for
a zone change or zone text amendment.

17.130.030 Conditional Use Permit (CUP) Proceedings

   (a)    Minor Conditional Use Permit (CUPm).

      An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of
Sections 17.100 and this Section of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of
a Minor Conditional Use Permit (CUPm) application as complete, the
Planning Director or his/her designee shall review the application for
conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code. Within thirty (30)
days of receipt of a completed application, the Director, or designee,
shall prepare and issue a decision letter to the applicant.

   (b)   Conditional Use Permit (CUP).

      An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of
Sections 17.100 and this Section of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of
a Conditional Use Permit (CUPm) application as complete, the Planning
Director, or his/her designee, shall review the application for
conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code. The Director, or
designee, shall review the application for completeness. Once the
application has been deemed complete:

      (1)   The Director, or designee, shall prepare a recommendation
and forward the recommendation, application, and other relevant
materials to the Planning Commission secretary. The secretary shall
schedule the matter for public hearing pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.

      (2)    The Planning Commission shall hear and take action upon the
application pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning
Code.

      (3)    The Commission shall act to approve, conditionally approve,
or deny the application.

      (4)    The Commission shall adopt a Resolution containing its
findings and decisions. The Resolution shall recite, among other things,
the facts and reasons which make the granting or denial of the
Conditional Use Permit necessary to carry out the provisions and general
purpose of this Zoning Code. If the Conditional Use Permit is granted,
the report shall recite the conditions and limitations imposed, if any.

17.130.040 Finality of Commission Decision and Effective Date

   (a)   Minor Conditional Use Permit (CUPm)

      The decision of the Planning Director is considered final on the
date the Planning Director issues a decision letter. The decision shall
become effective upon issuance of the Planning Director's decision
letter, unless an appeal is filed to the Planning Commission.

   (b)   Conditional Use Permit

      The decision of the Planning Commission is considered final on the
date the Planning Commission adopts a Resolution setting forth its
decision. The decision shall become effective upon adoption of the
Resolution, unless an appeal has been filed with the City Council.

17.130.050 Basis for Approval or Denial of Conditional Use Permit

The Planning Director (for Minor CUPs), the Planning Commission, and
City Council on appeal, in acting to approve a Conditional Use Permit
application, may impose conditions as are reasonably necessary to ensure
the project is consistent with the General Plan, compatible with
surrounding land use, and meets the provisions and intent of this Zoning
Code. In making such a determination, the hearing body shall find that
the proposed use is generally in accord with the following principles
and standards:

   (a)    That the proposed Conditional Use is consistent with the
General Plan;

   (b)    That the nature, condition, and development of adjacent uses,
buildings, and structures have been considered, and that the use will
not adversely affect or be materially detrimental to these adjacent
uses, buildings, or structures;

   (c)    That the site for the proposed Conditional Use is of adequate
size and shape to accommodate the use and buildings proposed;

   (d)    That the proposed Conditional Use complies with all applicable
development standards of the zoning district; and

   (e)    That the proposed Conditional Use observes the spirit and
intent of this Zoning Code.

17.130.060 Inactive Applications and Expiration of Permits

   (a)   Inactive Applications

      Any application which has been inactive for six (6) months or
longer, shall be automatically deemed withdrawn. No notice, public
hearing, or other proceeding is required for such inactive applications
to be deemed automatically withdrawn.

   (b)   Expiration of Permits

      Any Conditional Use Permit which is not exercised within the time
specified in the grant of approval or, if no time is specified, within
two (2) years of the effective date of such approval, shall be
terminated. The Planning Commission may extend such approval for a
period of time not to exceed five (5) years (two (2) two-year extensions
and one (1) one-year extension), provided an application requesting the
extension is filed prior to the original expiration date. For purposes
of this Section, "exercised" means the commencement of construction
activity and/or establishment of the use or activity authorized by the
grant of approval.

[Ord. No. 475, Section 5, 5/28/08.]

17.130.070 Conditional Use Permit Approval Attached to the Property

Any Conditional Use Permit that is valid and in effect and granted
pursuant to the provisions of this Zoning Code shall run with the land
and shall continue to be valid upon change of ownership of the land or
any lawfully existing building or structure on the land.

17.130.080 Reservation of Right to Review Conditional Use Permit -
Changed Circumstances

Any Conditional Use Permit granted or approved hereunder shall be
granted or approved, with the City, Planning Commission, and City
Council retaining and reserving the right and jurisdiction to review and
to modify the permit -- including the conditions of approval, based on
changed circumstances. Changed circumstances include, but are not
limited to, the modification of the business, a change in scope,
emphasis, size, or nature of the business, or the expansion, alteration,
reconfiguration, or change of use. The reservation of right to review
any permit granted or approved hereunder by the City, Planning
Commission, and City Council is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the
right of the City, Planning Commission, and City Council to review and
revoke or modify any permit granted or approved hereunder for any
violations of the conditions imposed on such permit.

17.130.090 Revocation

   (a)   Authority

      The Planning Commission, or the City Council on appeal, may, after
required public hearings have been held and action has been taken in the
manner prescribed in this Zoning Code, revoke or modify any Conditional
Use Permit on one or more of the following grounds:

      (1)   That the approval was obtained by fraud, or that the
applicant made a materially false representation on the subject
application; or

      (2)    That the Conditional Use Permit is being or recently has
been exercised contrary to, or in violation of, the terms or conditions
of such approval or other authorization; or

      (3)    That the Conditional Use Permit is being or recently has
been exercised in violation of any statute, law, or regulation; or,

      (4)    That the use for which approval was granted, or other
use(s) not directly related, is exercised in a manner detrimental to the
public health and safety or in a manner which constitutes a nuisance.

      (5)   Violations of any conditions of approval for any permit
shall be addressed in the same manner as violations of the Code.

   (b)   Proceedings

      (1)   Hearing Required

         The Planning Commission secretary shall schedule a hearing
before the Planning Commission to consider the revocation, pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code. Noticing shall be
required only of the owner or owners of the property affected by the
Conditional Use Permit, notwithstanding the provisions of Section
17.100.040.

      (2)   Findings Required

         In acting to revoke a Conditional Use Permit, the Planning
Commission shall make written findings citing the reasons for the
revocation.

   (c)   Effective Date

      (1)   A revocation of a Conditional Use Permit shall not become
effective until the Planning Commission has adopted a Resolution
revoking such approval or status, and until the time period to appeal
the Commission's decision to the City Council has lapsed with no appeal
being filed.

      (2)   In the event an appeal of the Planning Commission's decision
is appropriately filed, the revocation will become effective when the
City Council adopts a Resolution revoking such approval or status.

      (3)   The Community Development Department shall issue written
notification to the property owner of any Planning Commission and/or
City Council action.

   (d)   Right of Appeal

      The property owner, applicant, or other interested party may
appeal to the City Council a decision of the Planning Commission to
revoke or not revoke a Conditional Use Permit. The appeal shall be filed
and considered in accordance with the provisions of the Adelanto
Municipal Code.

CHAPTER 17.135
VARIANCES - MAJOR

   17.135.010   Purpose

   17.135.020   Proposed Actions Requiring Major Variance Application

   17.135.030   Special Application Requirements

   17.135.040   Proceedings

   17.135.050   Finality of Commission Decision and Effective Date

   17.135.060   Required Findings

   17.135.070   Major Variance Approval Attached to the Property

17.135.010 Purpose

   (a)   The Variance procedure is provided pursuant to Section 65906 of
the California Government Code to grant relief from zoning provisions
when, because of special circumstances applicable to a property,
including size, shape, topography, location, or surroundings, the strict
application of this Zoning Code deprives such property of privileges
enjoyed by other property in the vicinity and under the identical zoning
classification.

   (b)   The City has established two (2) types of Variance
applications: Major Variances and Minor Variances. This Chapter
addresses Major Variances. Minor Variances are addressed in Chapter
17.140 of this Zoning Code.

   (c)   Variances shall not be granted to authorize a use or activity
on a property which is not otherwise expressly authorized by the
provisions of this Zoning Code governing that property. A Variance is
not a substitute for a zone change or zone text amendment.

17.135.020 Proposed Actions Requiring Major Variance Application

A Major Variance application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions
of Section 17.100.020 whenever any of the following deviations from the
provisions of this Zoning Code are proposed:

   (a)   A greater than thirty percent (30%) reduction in the number of
required parking or loading spaces.

   (b)   A greater than forty percent (40%) reduction of the required
front yard or side yard setback.

   (c)   A greater than thirty percent (30%) reduction of the required
rear yard setback.

   (d)   A greater than thirty percent (30%) reduction of the required
minimum lot coverage standard.

   (e)   A greater than (30%) increase in the maximum building height.

   (f)   Any change related to the size, placement, number, or
illumination of on-site and off-site signs.

   (g)   Any reduction in required driveway length as defined in Section
17.65.070(c) of this Zoning Code.

   (h)   Any other change not classified as a Minor Variance in Section
17.140.020 of this Zoning Code.

17.135.030 Special Application Requirements

In addition to the application information required under Section
17.100.020 of this Zoning Code, an application for a Major Variance
shall include:

   (a)    A description of the special circumstances or conditions
applicable to the property;

   (b)    The reasons as to why a Variance request has been filed; and

   (c)    A statement that the application meets the findings specified
in Section 17.135.060.

17.135.040 Proceedings

   (a)    An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of a Major Variance
application as complete, the Director of Community Development or
his/her designee shall review the application for conformance with the
provisions of this Zoning Code. The Director shall prepare a
recommendation and forward the recommendation, application, and other
relevant materials to the Planning Commission secretary. The secretary
shall schedule the matter for public hearing pursuant to the provisions
of Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.

   (b)    The Planning Commission shall hear and take action upon the
application pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning
Code.

   (c)    The Commission shall act to approve, conditionally approve, or
deny the application.

   (d)    The Commission shall adopt a Resolution containing its
decisions and findings. The Resolution shall recite, among other things,
the facts and reasons which make the granting or denial of the Major
Variance necessary to carry out the provisions and general purpose of
this Zoning Code. Conditions may be imposed on the Major Variance.

17.135.050 Finality of Commission Decision and Effective Date

The decision of the Commission is considered final on the date the
Commission adopts a Resolution setting forth its decision. The decision
shall become effective thirty (30) days after the adoption of the
Resolution unless an appeal has been filed with the City Council.

If a Major Variance is not used (i.e., if construction in conformance
with the Major Variance is not completed, or a use is not established)
within three (3) years of the date of issuance, the Major Variance shall
expire.

17.135.060 Required Findings

In granting a Major Variance, the Planning Commission, and City Council
on appeal, must make the following findings:

   (a)    That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applicable to the property which do not apply generally to
other properties in the same vicinity and zone; and

   (b)    That such Variance is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of substantial property rights possessed by other properties
in the same vicinity and zone, but which is denied the property in
question; and

   (c)   That the granting of such Variance will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity; and

   (d)   That in granting the Variance, the spirit and intent of this
Zoning Code will be observed; and

   (e)   That the Variance does not grant special privilege to the
applicant; and

   (f)   That the Variance request is consistent with the General Plan
of the City of Adelanto.

17.135.070 Major Variance Approval Attached to the Property

A Major Variance that is valid and in effect and granted pursuant to the
provisions of this Zoning Code and acted upon within the time frame
established in Section 17.135.050 shall run with the land and shall
continue to be valid upon change of ownership of the land or any
lawfully existing building or structure on the land.

CHAPTER 17.140
VARIANCES - MINOR

   17.140.010   Purpose

   17.140.020   Proposed Actions Subject to Minor Variance Application

   17.140.030   Special Application Requirements

   17.140.040   Proceedings

   17.140.050   Finality of Director's Decision and Effective Date

   17.140.060   Required Findings

   17.140.070   Minor Variance Approval Attached to the Property

17.140.010 Purpose

   (a)   The Variance procedure is provided pursuant to Section 65906 of
the California Government Code to grant relief from zoning provisions
when, because of special circumstances applicable to a property,
including size, shape, topography, location, or surroundings, the strict
application of this Zoning Code deprives such property of privileges
enjoyed by other property in the vicinity and under the identical zoning
classification.

   (b)   The City has established two (2) types of Variance
applications: Major Variances and Minor Variances. This Chapter
addresses Minor Variances. Major Variances are addressed in the
preceding Chapter 17.135.

   (c)   Variances shall not be granted to authorize a use or activity
on a property which is not otherwise expressly authorized by the
provisions of this Zoning Code governing that property. A Variance is
not a substitute for a zone change or zone text amendment.

17.140.020 Proposed Actions Subject to Minor Variance Application

A Minor Variance application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions
of Section 17.100.020 whenever any of the following deviations from the
provisions of this Zoning Code are proposed:

   (a)   Up to a thirty percent (30%) reduction in the number of
required parking or loading spaces.

   (b)   Up to a forty percent (40%) reduction of the required front
yard, provided that a setback of at least fifteen feet (15') to the
front property line is maintained

   (c)   Up to a forty percent (40%) reduction of the required side yard
setback, provided that a setback of at least three feet (3') is
maintained, consistent with the requirements of the applicable Fire
Code.

   (d)   Up to a thirty percent (30%) reduction of the required rear
yard setback.

   (e)   Up to a thirty percent (30%) reduction of the required minimum
lot coverage standard.

   (f)   Up to a thirty percent (30%) increase in the maximum height.
Any height increase of not more than two feet (2') shall be considered a
Minor Variance.

      Any other deviation shall be considered a Major Variance and
subject to the provisions of Chapter 17.135 of this Zoning Code.

17.140.030 Special Application Requirements

In addition to the application information required under Section
17.100.020 of this Zoning Code, an application for a Minor Variance
shall include:

   (a)   A description of the special circumstances or conditions
applicable to the property;

   (b)   The reasons as to why a Minor Variance request has been filed;
and,

   (c)   A statement that the application meets the findings specified
in Section 17.140.060.

17.140.040 Proceedings

   (a)    An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of a Minor Variance
application as complete, the Planning Director or his/her designee shall
review the application for conformance with the provisions of this
Zoning Code. No public hearing shall be required. Based on this review,
the Director shall act to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
application.

   (b)    Within thirty (30) days of receiving a completed application,
the Director shall prepare a written report stating his/her decisions
and findings. The report shall recite, among other things, the facts and
reasons which make the granting or denial of the Minor Variance
necessary to carry out the provisions and general purpose of this Zoning
Code. Conditions may be imposed on the Minor Variance. The report shall
be mailed to the applicant via certified mail or by similar means
guaranteeing proof of delivery.

17.140.050 Finality of Director's Decision and Effective Date

The decision of the Planning Director is considered final on the date
that the report is issued. The decision shall become effective
immediately, unless an appeal has been filed with the Planning
Commission.

If a Minor Variance is not used (i.e., if construction in conformance
with the Minor Variance is not completed, or a use is not established)
within three (3) years of the date of issuance, the Minor Variance shall
expire.

17.140.060 Required Findings

In granting a Minor Variance, the Director, and Planning Commission or
City Council on appeal, must make the following findings:

   (a)   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applicable to the property which do not apply generally to
other properties in the same vicinity and zone; and

   (b)   That such Variance is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of substantial property rights possessed by other properties
in the same vicinity and zone but which is denied the property in
question; and

   (c)   That the granting of such Variance will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity; and

   (d)   That in granting the Variance, the spirit and intent of this
Zoning Code will be observed; and,

   (e)   That the Variance does not grant special privilege to the
applicant; and

   (f)   That the variance request is consistent with the General Plan
of the City of Adelanto.

17.140.070 Minor Variance Approval Attached to the Property

A Minor Variance that is valid and in effect and granted pursuant to the
provisions of this Zoning Code and acted upon within the time frame
established in Section 17.140.050 shall run with the land and shall
continue to be valid upon change of ownership of the land or any
lawfully existing building or structure on the land.

CHAPTER 17.150
LOCATION AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN

   17.150.010   Purpose

   17.150.020   Application Requirements

   17.150.030   Location and Development Plan Applications

   17.150.040   Location and Development Plan Proceedings

   17.150.050   Finality of Planning Commission Decision and Effective
Date

   17.150.060   Basis for Approval or Denial of a Location and
Development Plan

   17.150.070   Inactive Applications and Expiration of Permits

   17.150.080   Location and Development Plan Attached to the Property

   17.150.090   Revocation

17.150.010 Purpose

   (a)   The City recognizes that in order to provide safe and efficient
circulation, compatibility with surrounding uses, attractive and
efficient designs, and required landscaping, open space, and other
areas, all new development, establishment of new uses require the formal
review and approval of a detailed Location and Development Plan. The
Location and Development Plan approval process is provided for this
purpose.

   (b)   Based on the size and type of new development, the City has
established two types of Location and Development Plan (LDP)
applications- LDP and Minor LDPs (identified as LDPm in Appendix A).

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]

17.150.020 Application Requirements

Applications for Location and Development Plan shall be submitted for
all projects and all allowable uses and structures permitted by this
Code and listed in the use charts for the various zoning districts,
including the following:

   (a)   New structures, including accessory structures and satellite
dishes;

   (b)   Expansion or conversion of an existing use or structure,
including tenant improvements;

   (c)   Construction or conversion of a structure(s) to allow a
mixed-use development;

   (d)   Enlargement of an existing structure for which a Location and
Development Plan has not previously been issued;

   (e)   Movement and relocation of any structure, including factory
built and manufactured housing, to any parcel within the City.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]

17.150.030 Location and Development Plan Applications

All Location and Development Plan applications (both LDP and LDPm) shall
be required, on forms provided by the Planning Department, for all land
use actions subject to the provisions of this Zoning Code. Such
applications shall identify all requirements for submittal. The accuracy
of all information, maps, and lists submitted shall be the
responsibility of the applicant. The Planning Director may also require
at his/her discretion the submission of additional information as needed
for a particular project. The Director, or designee, may reject any
application that is incomplete.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]

17.150.040 Location and Development Plan Proceedings

   (a)   Minor Location and Development Plan (LDPm)  

      An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of
Section 17.100.020 of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of a Location
and Development Plan application as complete, the Planning Director or
his/her designee shall review the application for conformance with the
provisions of this Zoning Code and add conditions of approval to ensure
compliance with Section 17.150.060.

      (1)   Within thirty (30) days of receipt of a completed
application, the Director, or designee, shall prepare and issue a
decision letter to the applicant.

      (2)   Such decision letter shall reflect the Planning Director’s
determination to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
application. If the Location and Development Plan is approved, the
decision letter shall recite the conditions and limitations imposed, if
any.

   (b)   Location and Development Plan (LDP) 

      An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of
Section 17.100.020 of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of a Location
and Development Plan application as complete, the Planning Director or
his/her designee shall review the application for conformance with the
provisions of this Zoning Code.

      (1)   The Planning Director shall prepare a recommendation and
forward the recommendation, application, and other relevant materials to
the Planning Commission secretary. The secretary shall schedule the
matter for public hearing pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 17.100
of this Zoning Code.

      (2)    The Planning Commission shall hear and take action upon the
Application pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning
Code.

      (3)    The Planning Commission shall act to approve, conditionally
approve, or deny the application.

      (4)    The Planning Commission shall adopt a Resolution containing
its findings and decisions. The Resolution shall recite, among other
things, the facts and reasons which make the granting or denial of the
Location and Development Plan necessary to carry out the provisions and
general purpose of this Zoning Code. If the Location and Development
Plan is approved, the report shall recite the conditions and limitations
imposed, if any.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]

17.150.050 Finality of Planning Commission Decision and Effective Date

The decision of the Planning Commission is considered final on the date
the Planning Commission adopts a Resolution setting forth a decision.
The decision shall become effective upon adoption of the Resolution,
unless an appeal is filed.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]

17.150.060 Basis for Approval or Denial of a Location and Development
Plan

The Planning Director, Planning Commission, and City Council on appeal,
in acting to approve a Location and Development Plan Application, may
impose conditions as are reasonably necessary to ensure the project is
consistent with the General Plan, compatible with surrounding land uses,
and meets the provisions and intent of this Zoning Code. In making such
a determination, the hearing body shall find that the proposed use is,
in general, in accord with the following principles and standards:

   (a)    That the proposed uses are consistent with the General Plan;

   (b)    That the nature, condition, and development of adjacent uses,
buildings, and structures have been considered, and that the use will
not adversely affect or be materially detrimental to these adjacent
uses, buildings, or structures;

   (c)    That the site for the proposed use is of adequate size and
shape to accommodate the use and buildings proposed;

   (d)    That the proposed use complies with all applicable development
standards of the Zoning District; and

   (e)    That the proposed use observes the spirit and intent of this
Zoning Code.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]

17.150.070 Inactive Applications and Expiration of Permits

   (a)   Inactive Applications

      Any application which has been inactive for six (6) months or
longer, shall be automatically deemed withdrawn. No notice, public
hearing, or other proceeding is required for such inactive applications
to be deemed automatically withdrawn.

   (b)   Expiration of Permits

      Any Location and Development Plan which is not exercised within
the time specified in the grant of approval or, if no time is specified,
within two (2) years of the effective date of such approval, shall be
terminated. The Planning Commission may extend such approval for a
period of time not to exceed five (5) years (two (2) two-year extensions
and one (1) one-year extension), provided an application requesting the
extension is filed prior to the original expiration date. For purposes
of this Section, "exercised" means the commencement of construction
activity and/or establishment of the use or activity authorized by the
grant of approval.

[Ord. No. 475, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]

17.150.080 Location and Development Plan Approval Attached to the
Property

An approved Location and Development Plan which is valid and in effect
and granted pursuant to the provisions of this Zoning Code shall run
with the land and shall continue to be valid upon change of ownership of
the land or any lawfully existing building or structure on the land.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]

17.150.090 Revocation

   (a)   Authority

      The Planning Commission, or the City Council on appeal, may, after
required public hearings have been held and action has been taken in the
manner prescribed in this Zoning Code, revoke or modify any Location and
Development Plan on one or more of the following grounds:

      (1)   That the approval was obtained by fraud, or that the
applicant made a materially false representation on the subject
application; or

      (2)    That the Location and Development Plan is being or recently
has been exercised contrary to, or in violation of, the terms or
conditions of such approval or other authorization; or

      (3)    That the Location and Development Plan is being or recently
has been exercised in violation of any statute, law, or regulation; or,

      (4)    That the construction and development, activity, or use for
which approval was granted, or other use(s) not directly related, is
exercised in a manner detrimental to the public health and safety or in
a manner which constitutes a nuisance.

      (5)   Violations of any conditions of approval for any permit
shall be addressed in the same manner as violations of the Code.

   (b)   Proceedings

      (1)   Hearing Required

         The Planning Commission secretary shall schedule a hearing
before the Planning Commission to consider the revocation, pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code. Noticing shall be
required only of the owner or owners of the property affected by the
Location and Development Plan, notwithstanding the provisions of Section
17.100.040.

      (2)   Findings Required

         In acting to revoke a Location and Development Plan, the
Planning Commission shall make written findings citing the reasons for
the revocation.

   (c)   Effective Date

      (1)   A revocation of a Location and Development Plan shall not
become effective until the Planning Commission has adopted a Resolution
revoking such approval or status, and until the time period to appeal
the Commission's decision to the City Council has lapsed with no appeal
being filed.

      (2)   In the event an appeal of the Planning Commission's decision
is appropriately filed, the revocation will become effective when the
City Council adopts a Resolution revoking such approval or status.

      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the property owner in writing of
the Planning Commission's and City Council's action.

   (d)   Right of Appeal

      The property owner, applicant, or other interested party may
appeal to the City Council a decision of the Planning Commission to
revoke or not revoke a Location and Development Plan. The appeal shall
be filed and considered in accordance with the provisions of the
Adelanto Municipal Code.

[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]

CHAPTER 17.155
TEMPORARY USE PERMIT

   17.155.010   Purpose

   17.155.020   Proceedings

   17.155.030   Conditions of Approval

   17.155.040   Finality of Planning Director's Decision and Effective
Date

17.155.010 Purpose

The Temporary Use Permit is established to allow certain uses to operate
for limited, defined periods at locations throughout the City, provided
the uses are regulated so as to avoid adverse impacts on the
neighborhoods in which they locate. Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by
Zoning District indicates the temporary uses permitted within the City
of Adelanto.

17.155.020 Proceedings

   (a)   An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of a Temporary Use
Permit application as complete, the Planning Director or his/her
designee shall review the application for conformance with the
provisions of this Zoning Code. No public hearing shall be required.
Based on this review, the Planning Director shall act to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the application.

   (b)   Within fifteen (15) days of receiving a completed application,
the Planning Director shall prepare a written report stating his/her
decisions and findings. The report shall recite, among other things, the
facts and reasons for granting or denying the application. The report
shall be mailed to the applicant via certified mail or by similar means
guaranteeing proof of delivery.

   (c)   The Planning Director may, at his/her discretion, refer the
Planning Use Permit to the Planning Commission for review and approval.
In this case, the Planning Commission shall have the authority to
approve or deny the application. Noticing and appeal procedures in this
case shall be the same as for a Staff-approved application.

17.155.030 Conditions of Approval

In granting a Temporary Use Permit, the Planning Director may impose
conditions. Certain mandatory conditions shall apply to specific uses,
as outlined in Chapter 17.75 of this Zoning Code.

17.155.040 Finality of Planning Director's Decision and Effective Date

The decision of the Planning Director is considered final on the date
that the report is issued. The decision shall become effective
immediately unless an appeal has been filed with the Planning
Commission.

CHAPTER 17.165
NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES

   17.165.001   Definitions

   17.165.010    General Provisions

   17.165.020   Nonconforming Uses

   17.165.030    Nonconforming Structures

   17.165.040    Exceptions for Residential Structures

   17.165.050   Notice of Nonconformity and Amortization

   17.165.052   Hearing Body Designated; Hearing

   17.165.054   Decision and Findings

   17.165.056   Right of Appeal

   17.165.057   Recordation of Order

   17.165.058   Revocation

   17.165.059   Public Nuisance

   17.165.060   Nonconforming Signs

   17.165.070   Nonconforming Adult Businesses

17.165.001 Definitions.

Nonconforming structure. A "legal nonconforming structure" is a
structure which was legally established according to the applicable
zoning and building laws of the time, but which does not meet current
zoning and building regulations. A use or structure can become "legal
nonconforming" due to rezoning, annexation or revisions to the Zoning
Code.

Nonconforming use. A "legal nonconforming use" is a use of land which
was legally established according to the applicable zoning and building
laws of the time, but which dose not meet current zoning and building
regulations. A use or structure can become "legal nonconforming" due to
rezoning, annexation or revisions to the Zoning Code.

[Ord. No. 578, 10/17/17.]

17.165.010 General Provisions

The regulations in this Chapter shall apply to all existing
nonconforming uses and structures and to any uses or structures made
nonconforming upon adoption of subsequent ordinances.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

17.165.020 Nonconforming Uses

   The following regulations shall apply to the legal, nonconforming use
of any building or structure. Regulations applicable to nonconforming
structures are provided in Section 17.165.030.

   (a)   Continuation

      Any nonconforming use may be continued through the amortization
period, provided that the use shall not be increased, enlarged,
extended, or altered except as provided in this chapter.

   (b)   Termination Due to Cessation of Use

      Any part of a building or land occupied by a nonconforming use in
which that use is discontinued for one hundred eighty (180) days or more
shall thereafter lose its nonconforming use status. All subsequent uses
shall be used in conformity with the provisions of this Zoning Code.

   (c)   Amortization of Nonconforming Uses: General

      Every legal nonconforming use shall be terminated according to the
amortization time schedule established by Resolution of the City Council
or the provisions of this Chapter.

   (d)   Amortization of Nonconforming Use Where No Building Exists

      Except as otherwise provided herein, the legal nonconforrning use
of land where no structure exists may continue for a period of not more
than ten (10) years from the date the use became nonconforming, provided
the nonconforming use will not in any way be expanded or extended,
either on the same or adjoining property.

   (e)   Alteration of Nonconforming Uses

      (1)   A legal nonconforming use may not be enlarged, expanded, or
otherwise increased in scope unless a Conditional Use Permit has been
issued pursuant to Chapter 17.130 of this Zoning Code.

      (2)   Any alteration required by governmental or court action
shall be exempt from these conditions.

      (3)   Restrictions and conditions affecting a nonconforming use
shall apply to the existing use, land, and structures, and shall not be
affected by ownership changes.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

17.165.030 Nonconforming Structures

   (a)   Continuation

      Any nonconforming structure may be continued and maintained
through the amortization period, provided there are no structural
alterations except as provided in this Chapter.

   (b)   Alterations

      The following alterations are permitted to a nonconforming
structure:

      (1)   When a subsequently adopted ordinance or regulation requires
specific alterations, those alterations shall be made.

      (2)   Additions to a nonconforming structure may be made, provided
the proposed addition meets all requirements in effect at the time the
application for the addition is made.

   (c)   Amortization

      (1)   Every legal nonconforming structure shall be completely
removed or altered to conform to the requirements of the zoning district
in which it is located according to the amortization time schedule
established by Resolution of the City Council or the provisions of this
Chapter. Such time schedule for removal or alteration may not be fixed
for a date before the expiration of the normal life of any building, as
determined by the Planning Director. Such determination of the normal
life of a nonconforming building, and the fixing of time for its removal
or alteration, may only be made after notice to the owner.

      (2)   An order for removal or alteration shall require such action
on a date no less than five (5) years from the time such an order is
made. It shall be the duty of the Planning Department to give the owner
of the affected structure written notice of the required removal or
alteration immediately upon the order becoming final. A second notice
shall be issued not less than sixty (60) or more than one hundred eighty
(180) days prior to the date such removal or alteration is required to
be completed. If the Planning Department fails to give this second
notice within the above time period, the owner shall be given sixty (60)
days from the notice's actual postmark date.

   (d)   Reconstruction of Damaged Structure

      Any nonconforming structure damaged by any natural or man-made
catastrophe subsequent to the effective date of this Zoning Code may be
reconstructed, provided that the cost of such reconstruction does not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the appraised value of such structure at
the time such damage occurred.

      If, in the process of reconstructing a nonconforming structure
pursuant to this subsection, certain nonconformities can be brought into
conformance, they shall be brought into conformance.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

17.165.040 Exceptions for Residential Structures

   (a)   A nonconforming residential structure which complied with the
applicable development standards at the time of its construction, and
which is utilized for residential purposes in a zoning district that
allows such residential uses, or is in the Business Park Zone (BP), is
not subject to the provisions of this Chapter.

   (b)   The requirement for a Conditional Use Permit shall not apply to
nonconforming residential uses where such uses are being expanded or
modified by no more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor space or
ground area existing at the time such use became a nonconforming use.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

17.165.050 Notice of Nonconformity and Amortization

   (a)   Upon determination that the provisions in this Chapter apply to
a given parcel of land, the Planning Director or his/her designee shall
send a notice regarding this parcel by certified United States mail,
return receipt requested, to the owner of said parcel as shown on the
last equalized assessment roll. The Director shall also post this
property with a similar notice and shall publish such notice at least
once in a newspaper of general circulation. Should the certified mailed
notice be returned to the City for any reason, the City shall cause a
copy of the same to be mailed to the property owner shown on the last
equalized assessment roll by regular first-class mail with postage fully
paid.

   (b)   The notice provided for in this Section shall state that the
property in question is a nonconformity and shall state the date of
abatement established in the Resolution of the City Council. The
abatement date shall be deemed to apply unless the property owner
requests a hearing before the hearing body. The property owner shall
have sixty (60) days from the date of the notice to request a hearing.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

17.165.052 Hearing Body Designated; Hearing

   (a)   The City Council by Resolution shall designate the hearing body
for purposes of this Chapter.

   (b)   If a hearing is requested by the property owner in accordance
with Section 17.165.050, the hearing body shall hold a public hearing to
determine whether the nonconformity should be abated or whether a time
extension should be granted. Notice of the hearing shall be given to all
property owners within a three-hundred foot (300) radius of subject
property.

   (c)   The hearing body shall receive written and oral testimony at
such hearing regarding the abatement or elimination of the
nonconformity.

   (d)   At the close of the public hearing, the hearing body shall find
and determine whether the nonconformity should be abated and all facts
in support thereof, whether the owner of the property can amortize
his/her investment in the term for abatement provided in the Resolution
of the City Council, and if not, what term for abatement should be
provided.

   (e)   The hearing body shall also find and determine whether the
nonconforming use or structure can economically be used in its present
condition or if the nonconformity can be successfully modified for a
purpose permitted in the zoning district in which it is located.

   (f)   The hearing body, or the City Council on appeal, shall base its
decision as to the length of the permitted amortization period on any
competent evidence presented, including but not limited to the
depreciation schedule attached to the owner's latest federal income tax
return.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

17.165.054 Decision and Findings

   The decision of the hearing body and the findings in support of said
decision shall be in the form of a written order and shall be served to
the property owner personally or by certified United States mail, return
receipt requested, within ten (10) days after the decision is rendered.
Findings shall be made as to whether or not the balancing of the public
interest and the request by the owner for continuance, alteration, or
expansion of the nonconformity of the subject property require a
deviation from the development standards of the City of Adelanto.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

17.165.056 Right of Appeal

   (a)   The decision of the hearing body terminating the nonconformity
or an extension may be appealed to the City Council in accordance with
the Adelanto Municipal Code.

   (b)   After the expiration of the appeal period, the decision of the
hearing body shall be final and conclusive unless an appeal was timely
filed in accordance with the provisions of this Section.

   (c)   The City Council on appeal shall conduct the hearing in
accordance with Section 17.165.052 and may uphold, reverse, or amend any
decision of the hearing body. The decision of the City Council shall be
final and conclusive. Notice of the City Council's decision shall be
mailed by the City Clerk to the property owner or other appellant within
ten (10) days of the City Council's decision by certified United States
mail, return receipt requested.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

17.165.057 Recordation of Order

   After the conclusion of all appeals, the City Clerk shall cause
notice of the decision and order of the hearing body, or the City
Council in the case of an appeal, to be recorded with the County
Recorder of the County of San Bernardino. The notice shall consist of a
Notice of Zoning Violation.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

17.165.058 Revocation

   (a)   Whenever the use, maintenance, or continuation of nonconforming
conditions or use is granted through the means of Conditional Use
Permits, Variances, Location and Development Approval, Extensions,
Expansions, or other approved changes, the same may be revoked by the
City Council whenever the City Council finds that the terms or
conditions of any CUP, Variance, Location and Development Approval,
Extension, Expansion, or other approval are being violated, the
condition or use of the property constitutes a public nuisance, or the
health, safety, or welfare of the surrounding property owners or
residents is being threatened by the continuation of said nonconforming
use or condition.

   (b)   The revocation process may be initiated by the order of the
City Council, or any person demonstrating that his/her health, safety,
or welfare is being adversely affected by the continuation of
circumstances existing on nonconforming property.

   (c)   The property owner shall be notified of the commencement of the
revocation process pursuant to Sections 17.165.050 and 17.165.054.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

17.165.059 Public Nuisance

   Any nonconforming use or structure continuing beyond the date for
abatement set by the hearing body, or City Council on appeal, shall be
deemed a public nuisance, subject to abatement thereof and prosecution
either through civil or criminal action.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

17.165.060 Nonconforming Signs

   Nonconforming signs shall comply with the applicable provisions
contained in Chapter 17.70 of this Zoning Code.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

17.165.070 Nonconforming Adult Businesses

   Nonconforming adult businesses shall comply with the applicable
provisions contained in Chapter 17.85 of this Zoning Code.

[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]

CHAPTER 17.170
COVENANTS FOR EASEMENTS

   17.170.010   General

   17.170.015   Procedures

   17.170.020   Content of Covenant

   17.170.025   Release of Covenant--Procedure

17.170.010 General

   (a)   Authority for Adoption - This Chapter is adopted pursuant to
Government Code Sections 65870 to 65875.

   (b)   Application of This Chapter to Development Projects - This
Chapter shall apply to all development projects approved by the City,
its City Council, Planning Commission, voters, officers, and employees,
which are not a part of the subdivision process, and acts independently
from any other authority or method for the City to require an easement.

      The provisions of this Chapter shall only apply when:

      (1)   The covenant for easement is for:

         A.   Parking;

         B.   Ingress, egress, or emergency access;

         C.   Light and/or air access;

         D.   Landscaping; and/or

         E.   Open space purposes.

      (2)   At the time of recording the covenant of easement, all the
real property benefitted or burdened by said covenant shall be in common
ownership.

      (3)   When the development project for which the approval is
sought is not an approval under the Subdivision Map Act.

17.170.015 Procedures

Whenever the Planning Commission or City Council determines,
independently or based upon the recommendation of City staff, that a
Covenant of Easement is needed for one or more of the purposes
identified in Section 17.170.010(b)(1), the approval, permit, or
designation shall not become effective unless or until said Covenant of
Easement is recorded.

   (a)   Whenever a Covenant of Easement is required herein, the
Covenant shall either:

      (1)   Be in a form and manner approved by the City Attorney based
upon the advise of the City Engineer and Planning Director; or,

      (2)   Be prepared by the City Attorney. Whenever the City Attorney
prepares a Covenant of Easement, the City shall be entitled to
reimbursement from the applicant for the costs associated therewith.

17.170.020 Content of Covenant 

Any Covenant of Easement prepared pursuant to this Chapter shall
contain, at a minimum, the following elements:

   (a)   Identification of the owner and/or owners of the real property
to be burdened, including a statement that both the burdened and
benefitted parcels are under common ownership;

   (b)   A consent to said Covenant of Easement and the recording
thereof by the record owner and/or owners to the Covenant;

   (c)   Identification of the real property to be benefitted and to be
burdened by said Covenant including a legal description of the same;

   (d)   A statement that said Covenant shall act as an easement
pursuant to Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 801) of Title 2 of Part 2
of Division 2 of the California Civil Code -- including an express
statement that said easement and Covenant of Easement shall not merge
into any other interest in real property pursuant to California
Government Code Section 65871(b);

   (e)   State that said Covenant of Easement shall run with the land,
be binding upon all successors in interest to the burdened real
property, inure to all successors in interest to the real property
benefitted, and shall be subject to California Civil Code Section 1104;

   (f)   Identify the approval, permit, or designation granted which
required the Covenant;

   (g)   A statement identifying the Adelanto Municipal Code Section
which sets forth the procedure for release of the Covenant;

   (h)   An appropriate section for execution of said Covenant of
Easement by the record owner or owners of the subject real property.

17.170.025 Release of Covenant - Procedure

Any person may request that the City make a determination as to whether
or not the restriction imposed by the Covenant of Easement is still
necessary to achieve the City's land use goals. The determination of the
need for the Covenant of Easement shall be made by the body, i.e., City
Council or Planning Commission, that took final action on the original
application. A person shall be entitled to only one (1) such
determination in any twelve (12) month period.

   (a)   To obtain a determination mentioned above, a "Request for
Determination" application shall be made and filed with the City Clerk.
Said application shall include a fee as set by Resolution of the City
Council.

   (b)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the City Clerk shall
set the matter for Public Hearing before the Planning Commission or City
Council, as appropriate, and cause notice thereof to be given pursuant
to Government Code Section 65090, and a copy of the notice shall be
mailed to the record property owner or owners as shown on the Tax
Assessor's latest equalized role if other than the applicant and to all
record property owners within three-hundred (300) feet of the property.

   (c)   At the conclusion of the Public Hearing, the Planning
Commission or City Council, as appropriate, shall determine and make a
finding, based upon substantial evidence in the record, whether or not
the restriction imposed by the Covenant of Easement is still necessary
to achieve the land use goals of the City. If the Planning Commission or
City Council, as appropriate, determines that the Covenant for Easement
is still required, the Planning Commission or City Council, as
appropriate, shall by Resolution determine that the need still exists.

   (d)   If the Planning Commission or City Council, as appropriate,
finds that the Covenant of Easement is no longer necessary, the Planning
Commission or City Council, as appropriate, shall by Resolution make the
determination and finding and direct the City Attorney to prepare a
release thereof and transmit the same to the City Clerk for recording.

   (e)   Planning Commission action on the continuing need for the
Covenant of Easement is subject to appeal to the City Council.

   (f)   The City Council's determination in subsections (c) and (d)
above shall be final and conclusive.

CHAPTER 17.180
SUBDIVISION OF LAND

   17.180.010   Adelanto Ordinance 277U

   17.180.020   General Provisions

17.180.010 Adelanto Ordinance 277U

The provisions defining and regulating the review and approval of
tentative, final, and parcel maps; lot line adjustments; lot mergers;
reversions to acreage; certificates of subdivision compliance, and
official maps shall be governed by the City of Adelanto Ordinance No.
277U, adopted March 8, 1994. Section 1 of this Ordinance adopts the
Subdivision Map Act, as Amended by any 1993 or prior Statutes, by
reference, as if set forth herein in full.

17.180.020 General Provisions

Authority for Local Regulations: Pursuant to the provisions of
California Government Code, Title 7, Division 2, referred to herein as
the Subdivision Map Act, and in addition to any regulations otherwise
provided by law, the regulations contained in this division shall apply
to all subdivisions, parts of subdivisions, lot line adjustments, lot
mergers, reversions to acreage, certificates of compliance, and official
maps hereafter made entirely or partially within the City of Adelanto.

CHAPTER 17.190
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW

   17.190.010   Adelanto Resolution No. 75-11

   17.190.020   General Provisions

17.190.010 Adelanto Resolution No. 75-11

Under the California Environmental Quality Act of 1970 (CEQA) both
public and private projects which have a significant environmental
effect require the preparation, by the public agency, of an
Environmental Impact Report (EIR). To comply with the requirements of
CEQA the City of Adelanto adopted Resolution No. 75-11.

17.190.020 General Provisions

Authority for Local Regulations: CEQA is implemented pursuant to the
provisions of California Public Resources Code 21000 et seq. and
pursuant to the Guidelines adopted by the Secretary of Resources and
incorporated into the California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Section
15000 et seq. The City of Adelanto will process and document both public
and private projects in accordance with the laws and Guidelines as may
be amended from time to time.

CHAPTER 17.195
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION IN HOUSING

17.195.010   General

17.195.020   Purpose

17.195.030   Intent

17.195.040   Definition of Reasonable Accommodation

17.195.050   Implementing Reasonable Accommodation

17.195.060   Disability Eligibility

17.195.070   Application Requirements

17.195.080   Review Authority

17.195.090   Findings and Decision

17.195.100   Appeal Determination

17.195.110   Non-Compliance

17.195.120   Accessibility Guidelines

17.195.010   General

Discrimination in housing on the basis of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status, and disability is prohibited by
federal and state law. Under the Federal Fair Housing Act and the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act (the Acts), refusing
residency to persons with disabilities, or placing conditions on their
residency, and refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules,
policies, practices, or services when such accommodations may be
necessary to afford a person with a disability the equal opportunity to
use and enjoy a dwelling is discrimination. The Acts requires that
housing providers allow residents to make reasonable structural
modifications to units and public/common areas in a dwelling when those
modifications may be necessary for a person with a disability to have
full enjoyment of a dwelling. With very few exceptions, the Acts apply
to privately and publicly owned housing, including housing subsidized by
the federal government or rented through the use of Section 8 voucher
assistance.

[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]

17.195.020   Purpose

The purpose of this chapter is to provide a formal procedure to request
reasonable accommodation for persons with disabilities seeking equal
access to housing under the Federal Fair Housing Act and the California
Fair Employment and Housing Act (the Acts) in the application of zoning
laws and other land use regulations, policies and procedures, and to
establish relevant criteria to be used when considering such requests.

[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]

17.195.030   Intent

Fair housing laws prohibit discrimination against people based on their
race, color, religion, national origin, sex, familial status, or
disability. For persons with disabilities, fair housing law extends
further to make it illegal to:

   (a)   Fail to make reasonable accommodation in rules, policies, and
services to give a person with a disability equal opportunity to occupy
and enjoy the full use of a housing unit; and

   (b)   Fail to allow reasonable modification to the premises if the
modification is necessary to allow full use of the premises.

[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]

17.195.040   Definition of Reasonable Accommodation

A deviation that provides a person with a disability relief from, and
flexibility in, the application of the City’s zoning, building, and land
use laws, regulations, policies or procedures, which is necessary to
provide a person with a disability an equal opportunity to use and enjoy
a dwelling.

[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]

17.195.050   Implementing Reasonable Accommodation

   (a)   Use of Service Animals. Individuals with disabilities have the
right to use the services of a guide, signal or trained dog (or other
such designated animal), and have such animals in or around their unit.
No additional charges or security deposits may be imposed for having a
guide, signal or trained animal. Tenants may be liable for any damage
caused by their animals.

   (b)   Modifications in Policies and Practices by Housing Provider. At
the request of an individual with a disability, a housing provider must
make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies, practices or services
to provide the individual equal opportunity to use and enjoy the
dwelling. This includes, but is not limited to, the following:

      (1)   Making an exemption to a "no pet" policy to enable a
disabled tenant to have a service animal.

      (2)   Changing parking rules to enable a disabled tenant to have
parking that meets his/her needs.

   (c)   Physical Modifications by Disabled Tenant. A housing provider
must allow disabled individuals to reasonably modify existing premises
if the modifications are necessary for the enjoyment of the amenities
provided within the premises. The tenant is responsible for the cost of
the modification. In some circumstances, a landlord may require that the
tenant agree to restore the interior of the premises to the original
condition. Examples of reasonable modifications include:

      (1)   Widening doorways;

      (2)   Lowering cabinets;

      (3)   Installing a wheelchair ramp; and

      (4)   Converting a bathtub to a shower.

[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]

17.195.060   Disability Eligibility

   (a)   Definition. This Chapter applies only to those persons who are
defined as disabled under the Acts. The Acts define a person with a
disability to include persons who are regarded as having an impairment,
and persons with a record of an impairment. The Federal Housing
Administration (FHA) defines a disabled person as an individual with a
physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one (1) or more
major life activities, such as walking, talking, seeing, hearing,
breathing, performing manual tasks, caring for one's self, learning, and
working.

   (b)   Other Qualifying Disabilities. Disabilities are not always
obvious. It is important to recognize that disabilities do not always
require a person to have an assistive device, such as a cane or hearing
aid; disabilities are not always physical and therefore mental
impairments such as chronic fatigue syndrome, a learning disability,
autism spectrum, and mental illness all fit the FHA's definition. Also,
the disease of addiction may qualify as a disability.

   (c)   Proof of Disability. A housing provider may request reliable
disability-related information under the following conditions:

      (1)   When it is necessary to verify that the person meets the
Act's definition of disability (i.e., has a physical or mental
impairment that substantially limits one (1) or more major life
activities);

      (2)   When the disability-related information describes the needed
accommodation; and

      (3)   When the disability-related information demonstrates the
relationship between the person's disability and the need for the
requested accommodation.

   (d)   Who Can Provide Proof of Disability. Proof of disability can be
provided by the individual, including documentation that they are under
sixty-five (65) years of age and receiving supplemental security income
or Social Security disability insurance benefits. A doctor or other
medical professional, a peer support group, a non-medical service
agency, or a reliable third party who is in a position to know about the
individual's disability may also provide verification of a disability.
An individual's medical records or detailed information about the nature
of a person's disability is not usually necessary for this inquiry and
should not be requested.

   (e)   Confidentiality. Once a housing provider has established that a
person meets the Act's definition of disability, the provider's request
for documentation should be limited to the information necessary to
evaluate if the reasonable accommodation is needed because of a
disability. Such information must be kept confidential and must not be
shared with other persons unless they need the information to make or
assess a decision to grant or deny a reasonable accommodation request or
unless disclosure is required by law (e.g., a court-issued subpoena
requiring disclosure).

[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]

17.195.070   Application Requirements

   (a)   Application and Fee. Requests for reasonable accommodation
shall be presented in a form approved by the Development Services
Department, together with the appropriate fee, as established by
resolution adopted by the City Council to be filed with the Planning
Division. A minor location and development plan application shall be
filed for requests concerning one (1) single family residence, and two
(2) or more residential units.

   (b)   Combined Proceedings. When the project for which the request
for reasonable accommodation is being made includes a discretionary
approval under this Title (including but not limited to a conditional
use permit, location and development plan review, variance, general plan
amendment or zone change), the application shall be submitted and
reviewed at the same time as the related applications by the appropriate
approval authority per Chapter 17.100 Administrative Procedure.

[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]

17.195.080   Review Authority

Approval Authority

   A.   Administrative Review. Planning staff has the authority to
review the appropriate submitted application and approve requests at the
public counter for reasonable accommodation, including whether the
applicant is a disabled person within the meaning of this chapter, if
the required findings in Section 17.195.090, Findings and Decision, can
be made. The appropriate fee shall be collected, and a building permit
may be required.

   B.   Encroachment into Setback Areas. When a reasonable accommodation
request includes any encroachment into the front or side yard setback
area that results in a building size increase above what is allowed in
the applicable zoning district with respect to height, lot coverage and
floor area ratio maximums, or whenever a reduction in required parking
is requested, the Development Services Director or designee shall
determine if the proposal substantially conforms to the intent of the
appropriate code section, in addition to complying with these reasonable
accommodation provisions.

   C.   Unpermitted Conversions. Unpermitted conversions of garages,
play rooms, storage rooms, accessory structures, etc., shall not be
considered for occupancy unless such a conversion meets development
standards for the zone, and the violation is corrected and/or permitted
as required by the Development Services Division through Planning and
Building Division review and approval.

   D.   Decision. If an immediate decision cannot be made
administratively, the Development Services Director or designee shall
render a decision within ten (10) days after the application is
complete, and shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the
application, based on the findings set forth below in Section
17.195.090, Findings and Decision. The decision shall be in writing and
mailed to the applicant.

[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]

17.195.090   Findings And Decision

   (a)   Findings. Any decision on an application under this Chapter
shall be supported by written findings addressing the criteria set forth
in this subsection. An application under this chapter for a reasonable
accommodation shall be granted if all of the following findings are
made:

      (1)   The housing, which is the subject of the request, will be
used by an individual disabled as defined under the Acts.

      (2)   The requested reasonable accommodation is necessary to make
specific housing available to an individual with a disability under the
Acts.

      (3)   The requested reasonable accommodation would not impose an
undue financial or administrative burden on the City.

      (4)   The requested reasonable accommodation would not require a
fundamental alteration in the nature of a City program or law, including
but not limited to land use and zoning.

      (5)   The requested reasonable accommodation would not adversely
impact surrounding properties or uses.

      (6)   There are no reasonable alternatives that would provide an
equivalent level of benefit without requiring a modification or
exception to the City’s applicable rules, standards and practices.

   (b)   Conditions of Approval. In granting a request for reasonable
accommodation, the reviewing authority may impose any conditions of
approval deemed reasonable and necessary to ensure that the reasonable
accommodation would comply with findings requires by subsection (1)
above.

   (c)   Time Limit. Improvements for reasonable accommodation granted
by the City to a property as provided in this Chapter shall run with the
rental or lease of the housing unit by the disabled person, and may
remain indefinitely. At any time in the future when such improvements
are not required, they may be removed by the property owner or housing
provider.

[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]

17.195.100   Appeal Determination

Any decision on an application under this chapter shall be subject to
appeal pursuant to Section 17.100.060 of the Adelanto Municipal Code.

[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]

17.195.110   Non-Compliance

   (a)   Requirement for Completion of Improvements. When improvements
to housing (new or existing) associated with reasonable accommodation
are a condition of approval, such work shall be completed prior to
building permit sign-off or certificate of occupancy. If this has not
occurred, and a disabled person is waiting to occupy the housing unit, a
notice will be issued by the Development Services Department. The notice
shall particularly specify the work required to be done and shall state
that if the work is not commenced within five (5) days after the receipt
of such notice and diligently and without interruption prosecuted to
completion, the City shall cause such work to be done, in which case the
cost of expense of such work, including incidental expenses incurred by
the City, will be assessed against the property or against each separate
lot and become a lien upon the property.

   (b)   Complaints. A disabled tenant or prospective tenant who
believes they are a victim of discrimination may lodge a complaint in
the following ways:

      (1)   Contact the Regional Human Rights/Fair Housing Commission.

      (2)   Contact the Department of Fair Employment and Housing
(DFEH). DFEH is the state agency authorized to investigate housing
discrimination complaints and enforce state fair housing laws.

      (3)   Contact the Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD). HUD is the federal agency authorized to investigate housing
discrimination complaints and enforce federal fair housing laws.

      (4)   File a private lawsuit in state or federal court.

[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]

17.195.120   Accessibility Guidelines

   (a)   New Housing. All new housing construction consisting of three
(3) or more dwelling units must be designed and constructed in a manner
that allows access to, and use by, disabled persons. See Section 1102A,
Housing Accessibility, of the California Building Code 2010.

   (b)   Existing Buildings. Building standards contained in Section
1102A, Housing Accessibility, of the California Building Code 2010 do
not apply to the alteration, repair, rehabilitation or maintenance of
multi-family dwellings constructed for occupancy prior to March 13,
1991.

   (c)   Limited Exceptions for Single Rooms and Roommates. Reasonable
accommodation provisions do not apply when the owner of an
owner-occupied, single-family home rents out a room in the home to a
roomer or a boarder, and there are no other roomers or boarders living
in the household. However, the owner cannot make or written statements,
or use notices or advertisements which indicate any preference,
limitation, or discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex,
sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, familial
status, source of income, or disability. Further, the owner cannot
discriminate on the basis of medical condition or age.

[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]

CHAPTER 17.200
DEFINITIONS OF TERMS

   17.200.010   General

   17.200.020   "A"   Definitions

   17.200.030   "B"    Definitions

   17.200.040   "C"    Definitions

   17.200.050   "D"    Definitions

   17.200.060   "E"    Definitions

   17.200.070   "F"    Definitions

   17.200.080   "G"    Definitions

   17.200.090   "H"    Definitions

   17.200.100   "I"    Definitions

   17.200.110   "J"    Definitions

   17.200.120   "K"    Definitions

   17.200.130   "L"    Definitions

   17.200.140   "M"    Definitions

   17.200.150   "N"    Definitions

   17.200.160   "O"    Definitions

   17.200.170   "P"    Definitions

   17.200.180   "Q"    Definitions

   17.200.190   "R"    Definitions

   17.200.200   "S"    Definitions

   17.200.210   "T"    Definitions

   17.200.220   "U"    Definitions

   17.200.230   "V"    Definitions

   17.200.240   "W"    Definitions

   17.200.250   "X"    Definitions

   17.200.260   "Y"    Definitions

   17.200.270   "Z"    Definitions

17.200.010 General

   For general terminology used throughout the Zoning Code, refer to
Section 17.01.090 of this Zoning Code. For terminology used in the
Zoning Code but not defined in this Chapter or in Section 17.01.090, the
definitions used in the Uniform Building Code or accepted dictionaries
of the English language shall govern.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.020 "A" Definitions

Abandoned - The cessation of the use of a property by the owner with the
intention neither of transferring rights to the property to another
owner nor of resuming the use of the property.

Abutting Land - A parcel of land having a common boundary with another
parcel of land, including parcels which have no common boundary other
than a common comer.

Accessory Building or Structure - A building or structure detached from,
on the same lot as, and customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal building.

Accessory Use - A use of a portion of land or building that is
customarily and clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal use
of the land or building and is located on the same lot with such
principal use. Accessory uses typically are very small in proportion to
the principal use.

Acreage, Gross - The total land area within a defined boundary (i.e.,
before the exclusion of areas including, but not limited to, slopes,
public rights-of-way, public parks, public school sites, and sites for
other public facilities).

Acreage, Net - That portion of gross acreage exclusive of public streets
and all public lands and rights-of-way. The area within the lot lines of
a lot exclusive of any dedications for slopes, public rights-of-way,
public parks, public school sites, and sites for other public
facilities.

Activity Street - A type of street designed to accommodate cyclists and
encourage pedestrian activity.

Addition - Any construction that is attached to an existing building or
facility and which increases the size or capacity of a building or
facility in terms of site coverage, height, length, width, or gross
floor area.

Adjoining - Refers to a lot or parcel of land which shares all or part
of a common lot line with another lot or parcel of land.

Adult Business - Refer to the definitions contained in Chapter 17.85 of
this Zoning Code.

Adult Day Care Facility - See "Day Care Center, Adult."

Agent - Any person showing written verification that he/she is acting
for, and with the knowledge and consent of, a property owner.

Agriculture - The use of land for the production of food and fiber,
including the growing of crops and/or the glazing of animals on natural
prime or improved pasture land.

Alcoholic Beverage Offsite Sales - The sale of packaged alcoholic
beverages for consumption at an offsite location.

Alcoholic Beverage Onsite Sales - The sale of alcoholic beverages,
including beer, wine, and mixed drinks, for consumption at the point of
sale. "Sales to persons over the legal drinking age exclusively," refers
to any facility which restricts entry to persons of legal drinking age,
as established by State law.

Alley - A narrow service way, either public or private, that provides a
permanently reserved but secondary means of public access. Alleys are
not intended for general traffic circulation, but for services and
delivery access. Alleys typically are located along rear property lines.

Alteration - Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an
existing building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or
interior partitions, as well as any change in doors or windows, or any
enlargement to or diminution of a building or structure, whether
horizontally or vertically, or the moving of a building or structure
from one location to another.

Amateur Radio Antenna - Any antenna used to receive and/or transmit
radio signals on the amateur radio bandwidth, as designated by the
Federal Communications Commission.

Amenity - A natural or man-made feature which enhances a particular
property.

Amusement Park - A commercial center comprised of a variety of
family-oriented entertainment uses, predominated by uses which occur
outside. A local example is the "Castle Park" amusement center in the
City of Riverside.

Animal - Unless otherwise stated for a specific situation, "animal"
includes birds, fish, mammals, and reptiles.

Antenna - Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs, or similar
devices used for the transmission, reception, or both, of
electromagnetic radiation waves.

Antique Sales (Refinished) - Any premises used for the sale of articles
that are one hundred (100) or more years old or are collectable. An
antique shop does not include a secondhand store as defined in this
Chapter.

Apartment - One or more rooms with private bath and kitchen facilities
comprising an independent, self-contained dwelling unit in a building
containing more than three (3) or more dwelling units for rent. See also
"Dwelling Unit."

Apartment Building - A structure containing three (3) or more apartment
units which is intended for rental purposes.

Applicant - A person who requests in writing the approval of a lease,
permit, license, certificate, or other entitlement from public agencies.

Application - The form, information, and fees submitted by an applicant
for purposes of requesting an entitlement from a public agency.

Arcade - A principal commercial entertainment land use consisting of
five (5) or more amusement machines located within one (1) building or
structure and operated in exchange for financial or other
considerations. In addition to any other principal use of the land, any
use or business with five (5) or more amusement machines shall be
considered an arcade.

Automobile Detailing - Auto detailing means an establishment which
performs hand-washing, waxing, and interior cleaning of passenger
vehicles.

Automobile Service Station - See "Service Station."

Automobile Wrecking - The dismantling or wrecking of two or more used
motor vehicles or trailers; or the storage, sale, or dumping of one or
more dismantled, partially dismantled, obsolete, or wrecked vehicles or
their parts.

Automobile/Trailer Sales Area - The use of any building, land area, or
other premises for the display and sale of new or used automobiles,
panel trucks, vans, trailers, or recreation vehicles, including any
repair service conducted as an accessory service.

Automobile/Truck Dealers - A facility that sells automobiles and/or
trucks of one ton or less capacity, both new and used, including the
repairing of same. Trucks of more than one (1) ton or one-and-one-half
(1.5) ton capacity are not be included in this term.

Automobile/Truck Repairing - A facility that provides to such vehicles
of any capacity repair services, which may include tire shops, muffler
shops, transmission shops, upholstery shops, and accessory shops.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.030 "B" Definitions

Backyard - See yard, rear. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Balcony - A structure with a walking surface at least 30 inches above
adjacent grade which extends from a building without support from the
ground. See also "Deck" and "Platform".

Basement - Basement shall be defined according to the definition
contained in the Uniform Building Code.

Bay Window - A group of windows projecting from a room in a floor-level
recess.

Bed and Breakfast - A house, or portion thereof, where rooms and meals
are provided for short-term stays. The operator of the bed and breakfast
shall live on the premises or adjacent premises.

Bedroom - Any habitable room used for sleeping purposes other than a
living room, family room, or den.

Billiard/Pool Hall - Any place of business where any of several games
are played on a table by driving small balls against one another or into
pockets with a cue and where alcoholic beverages are offered for sale.
Such place of business may include, as an accessory use, any mechanical
amusement device not otherwise prohibited by a City ordinance. See also
"Billiard Parlor, Family."

Billiard Parlor, Family - Any place of business where any of several
games are played on a table by driving small balls against one another
or into pockets with a cue and where no alcoholic beverages are offered
for sale. Such place of business may include, as an accessory use, any
mechanical amusement device not otherwise prohibited by a City
ordinance.

Body or Hearing Body - The individual or group duly authorized by this
Zoning Code to grant changes to, relief from, or special consideration
under the Zoning Code.

Boulevard - A type of street designed for multiple users with a
landscaped center median separating directional traffic.

Brewery - A facility where beer is brewed for off-site distribution and
delivery. A brewery does not contain a restaurant or tavern.

Building - Building shall be defined according to the definition
contained in the Uniform Building Code.

Building Coverage - The percentage of the net lot area which is covered
by all the buildings on a lot, as seen from a plan view.

Building Height - Building Height shall be defined and measured
according to the definition contained in the Uniform Building Code.

Building Pad - The area of a lot designed for the construction of
buildings and structures.

Building Official - The officer or other designated authority charged
with the administration and enforcement of the Uniform Building Code, or
the building official's duly authorized representative. (Ord. 410, 2003)

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.040 "C" Definitions

Caretaker's Residence - A dwelling unit accessory to the principal use
on a site which is intended for occupancy by a caretaker, security
guard, worker, or similar person generally requiring residence on the
site.

Car Wash, Full Service - A structure containing employees and facilities
for washing automobiles using a chain conveyor or other method of moving
the cars along, and automatic or semiautomatic application of cleaner,
brushes, rinse water, and heat for drying.

Car Wash, Self Service - A structure containing facilities for washing
stationary automobiles, including the semiautomatic application of
cleaner, rinse water, and possibly heat for drying. No car-washing
employees are located at a self-service car wash.

Carport - A roofed structure providing space for the parking or storage
of motor vehicles and open on at least one side. A three-sided building
with an opening on the fourth which is not provided with a closable door
is a carport.

Catering Service - An establishment that prepares and delivers food for
consumption off the premises, for example, for banquets or luncheons. A
catering establishment may contain kitchen facilities and may also
provide dining supplies such as place settings, tablecloths, and
beverage dispensers.

Cellar - See "Basement."

Cemetery - Property, including columbariums and mausoleums, that is used
for the interring of the deceased.

Centerline - The centerline of a street, as referred to in this Zoning
Code, shall mean the right-of-way centerline as established by the
County Engineer of the County, by the City Engineer of the City, or by
the State Division of Highways of the State; in any case in which the
foregoing definition is not applicable, the Planning Commission shall
designate the centerline.

Certificate of Occupancy - As defined by latest adopted edition of the
Uniform Building Code.

Child Day Care Facility - See "Day Care Center, Child."

Christmas Tree Sales Facility - A retail sales operation, generally
conducted wholly out-of-doors, that offers for sale on a temporary,
limited basis Christmas trees and related holiday items such as wreaths
and Christmas tree stands. The allowable sales period is defined in
Chapter 17.75 of this Code.

Church - An assemblage of people for worship, or an institution
facilitating worship, including personal counseling and education, and
the building or buildings where such activities take place.

City - The City of Adelanto. (Ord. 410, 2003)

City Manager - The City Manager or his/her designee(s). (Ord. 410, 2003)

Class I Bikeway (Bike Path) - A completely separate facility designated
for the exclusive use of bicycles and pedestrians, with vehicle and
pedestrian cross-flow minimized.

Class II Bikeway (Bike Lane) - A striped lane designated for the use of
bicycles on a street. Vehicle parking and vehicle/pedestrian cross-flow
are permitted at designated locations.

Class III Bikeway (Bike Route) - A route designated by signs or pavement
markings for bicyclists within the vehicular travel lane (i.e. shared
use) of a roadway.

Clinic - An organized outpatient health facility for patients who remain
less than twenty-four (24) hours. Clinics provide direct medical,
surgical, dental, optometric, podiatric, or psychological advice,
services, or treatment. Clinics may also provide diagnostic or
therapeutic services to patients in the home as an incident to care
provided at the clinic.

Club - A group of people organized for a common purpose to pursue common
goals, interests, or activities and usually characterized by certain
membership qualifications, payment of dues, regular meetings, a
constitution, and by-laws.

Code Enforcement Officer - Any person designated by the City as a law
enforcement officer who is qualified to perform such duties under the
laws of the State of California. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Commercial Animal Establishment - Any pet shop, grooming shop, guard dog
auction, riding school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing
animal exhibition, or boarding or breeding kennel open to the general
public. This definition does not apply to privately owned, not-for-hire
ranches. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Commercial Horticulture - The growing of fruits, vegetables, flowers and
ornamental plants for sale. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Commercial Kennel - see "Kennel."

Commercial Use - An activity that includes the buying and selling of
commodities and services.

Common Area - Land in a residential development held in common and/or
single ownership which is not reserved for the exclusive use or benefit
of an individual tenant or owner.

Common Open Space - Land within or serving as part of a development, not
individually owned or dedicated for public use, which is designed and
intended for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of the
development and may include such complementary structures and
improvements as are necessary and appropriate. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Communal Housing - Housing for nonfamily groups with common kitchen and
dining facilities but without medical, psychiatric, or other care.
Communal housing includes boarding houses, lodging houses, dormitories,
fraternity/sorority houses, communes, and religious homes.

Community Care Facility - Any facility, place, or building which is
maintained and operated to provide nonmedical residential care, day
treatment, adult day care, or foster family agency services for
children, adults, or children and adults, including, but not limited to,
physically handicapped, mentally impaired, incompetent persons, and
abused or neglected children; and which includes residential facilities,
adult day care facilities, day treatment facilities, foster family
homes, small family homes, social rehabilitation facilities, community
treatment facilities, and social day care facilities.

Community Center - A facility operated by the City which provides
recreational, cultural, or other similar community activities.

Conditional Use Permit - An approval that is required for a conditional
use to be carried out in a particular zoning district.

Conditional Use - A use permitted on a particular site and within a
zoning district only upon a finding that such use in a specified
location will comply with all the conditions and standards for the
location or operation of such use as specified in the Zoning Code and
authorized by the Planning Commission.

Condominium - The interior airspace of two (2) or more dwelling units
that are individually owned and where the balance of the property is
owned in common by the owners of the units.

Conforming - Fully meeting the requirements of the City of Adelanto
Building Regulations and all property development regulations and
requirements prescribed for the applicable zoning district. See also
"Nonconforming Land," "Nonconforming Structure," and "Nonconforming
Use."

Congregate Residence - Housing, often for senior citizens, arranged in a
group setting that includes independent living and sleeping
accommodations in conjunction with shared dining and recreational
facilities.

Convalescent Facility - A State-licensed facility that provides
long-term nursing, dietary, and other medical services, except surgery
or primary treatments customarily provided in a hospital, to
convalescents or invalids.

Country Club - A facility operated primarily for social and outdoor
recreation purposes. Country Club includes incidental accessory uses and
structures.

Court - Any open space, unobstructed from ground to sky other than a
yard, that is on the same lot and bounded on two (2) sides by the walls
of a building.

Covered Parking - A parking space(s) that is within a garage or carport
or under the overhanging portion of a building.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.050 "D" Definitions

Dance Floor - An area that is in excess of three hundred (300) square
feet or in excess of fifteen (15) percent of the public area of a
building and is used as a dance area, whether as a primary or accessory
use.

Dance Hall - A public half that is primarily and predominately devoted
to dancing.

Day Care Center, Adult - Any facility that provides nonmedical care, on
less than a twenty-four (24) hour basis, to persons eighteen (18) years
of age or older who are in need of personal services, supervision, or
assistance essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or
for the protection of the individual.

Day Care Center, Child - Any child day care facility with a capacity of
more than twelve (12) children. Day care centers include infant centers,
preschools, and extended day care facilities. Such a facility provides
nonmedical care, on a less than a twenty-four (24) hour basis, to
persons under eighteen (18) years of age in need of personal services,
supervision, or assistance essential for sustaining the activities of
daily living or for the protection of the individual.

Day Care Home, Large Family - A residential home that provides family
day care, in the provider's own home, to seven (7) to twelve (12)
children, inclusive, including children under the age often (10) years
who reside at the home.

Day Care Home, Small Family - A residential home that provides family
day care, in the provider's own home, to six (6) or fewer children,
including children under the age of ten (10) years who reside at the
home.

Day Treatment Facility - Any facility that provides nonmedical care,
counseling, educational or vocational support, or social rehabilitation
services on less than a twenty-four (24) hour basis to persons under
eighteen (18) years of age who would otherwise be placed in foster care
or who are returning to families from foster care.

Decibel (db) - A unit used to express the intensity of a sound wave.

Deck - A structure projecting from a building (typically a home) at
least 30 inches (30") above adjacent grade which is supported from the
ground. See also "Balcony" and "Platform."

Dedication - The release by an owner or developer of private land for
public use, and the acceptance of land for such use by the governmental
agency having jurisdiction over the public function for which it will be
used.

Demolish - To remove more than seventy-five percent (75%) of the
exterior walls of an existing building or structure, as measured by the
linear length of the walls.

Density - The number of permanent residential dwelling units per gross
acre of land.

Dependent Housing - A dwelling unit provided either as a detached or
attached accessory unit to a primary residence on a parcel zoned for one
(1) single-family residence, provided the accessory unit is intended
for:

   (a)   Occupancy by one (1) or two (2) adults of minimum age sixty
(60) who are dependents of the residents of the primary unit; or

   (b)   Are court-appointed conservatees of a resident of the primary
unit; or

   (c)   Are members of a very-low-income household as specified in
Section 50105 of the Health and Safety Code and are related to the
primary unit residents by birth, marriage, or adoption.

Detached Building - A building that does not have a building wall of
four (4) feet or more in length in common with another building.

Developer - The individual or organization who is responsible for the
planning, design, and construction of an applicable development project.
A developer may be responsible for implementing the provisions of this
Zoning Code as determined by the property owner.

Discount Store - A store advertising a wide variety of merchandise for
sale at less-than-retail cost.

Distribution Facility - A use engaged primarily in the storage and
wholesale distribution of manufactured products, supplies, and
equipment, including incidental sales activities, but excluding bulk
storage of materials which are flammable or explosive.

Drive-in Restaurant - See "Restaurant, Fast-Food."

Drive-in Theater - An outdoor movie theater where patrons view movies or
any other form of entertainment on a screen or stage from their
vehicles. This definition does not include an adult theater.

Driveway - A private roadway or accessway providing vehicular access to
a parking space, parking lot, garage, dwelling, or other structure.

Drug Abuse Recovery or Treatment Facility - Any facility, place, or
building which is maintained and operated exclusively to provide
twenty-four (24) hour residential, nonmedical services in a group
setting to adults which may include, but need not be limited to, mothers
under eighteen (18) years of age and their children, who are recovering
from alcohol, drug, or drug and alcohol misuse and are currently capable
of meeting their life support needs independently, but who temporarily
need guidance, counseling, or other alcohol or drug recovery services.

Drug Store - A store where the primary business is the filling of
medical prescriptions and the sale of drugs, medical devices and
supplies, and nonprescription medicines, but where nonmedical products
such as cards, candy, and cosmetics also are sold. Offsite sale of
alcoholic beverages is permitted as an incidental use in drug stores of
at least ten thousand (10,000) square feet in size.

Dry Cleaning Plant - A facility where dry cleaning is performed on the
premises. A dry cleaning plant may also contain retail laundry service.

Dwelling - As defined in the latest edition of the Uniform Building
Code.

Dwelling, Duplex - A detached building that is designed for occupation
as the residence of two (2) families living individually from each
other.

Dwelling, Multi-Family - A building or portion thereof used and/or
designed as a residence with three (3) or more separate dwellings units
for (example, apartments or cooperatives).

Dwelling, Single-Family Attached - A dwelling unit occupied or intended
for occupancy by only one (1) household which is structurally connected
with at least one (1) other such dwelling unit (for example, townhouse
or condominium).

Dwelling, Single-Family Detached - A detached building containing no
more than one (1) dwelling unit which, regardless of form of ownership,
is designed and/or used to house not more than one (1) household
including all domestic employees of such family.

Dwelling, Two-Family - A building containing no more than two (2)
dwelling units.

Dwelling Unit - Any mobilehome or building or portion thereof, including
a manufactured home or portion thereof, which contains the following:
sleeping and eating areas, sanitation as required by the Uniform
Building Code, and one (1) kitchen area. For the purposes of this
definition, a kitchen area intended solely for use by the domestic
employees of the household shall not be counted in determining the
number of dwelling units. (See also "Kitchen.")

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.060 "E" Definitions

Easement - A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property
owner to and/or for the use of the public, a corporation, or another
person or entity.

Eave - See "Overhang, Roof."

Educational Institution - An institution such as a private or public
school, college, or university qualified by the State Board of Education
to give academic instruction.

Elevation -

   (a)   A scale drawing of the front, rear, or side of a building or
structure,

   (b)   Height above mean sea level.

Employee - Any person employed by a firm, person(s), business,
educational institution, nonprofit agency or corporation, government
agency, or other entity.

Employer - Any person(s), firm, business, educational institution,
government agency, nonprofit agency or corporation, or other entity
which employs persons at a single worksite, and may either be a property
owner or tenant of an applicable development project.

Emergency Shelter - A facility that provides immediate short-term
housing and supplemental services to homeless persons or families.
Supplemental services may include; food, counseling, and access to other
social programs.

Enclosed Parking Structure - A building or structure used for the
parking of motor vehicles, having exterior enclosure walls which have
less than twenty five percent (25%) of the total wall area open to the
atmosphere at each level on at least two (2) sides of the structure.

Entertainment Center - A commercial center or complex containing a
variety of family-oriented entertainment uses, predominated by uses
which occur indoors. Examples of uses in this type of center could
include motion picture theaters, arcades, and gift shops.

Equestrian Facility - A structure or area the use of which is devoted to
activities involving horses, mules, donkeys, ponies, or similar barnyard
animals.

Equipment Storage Yard or Contractor Yard - A use providing for
maintenance, servicing, or storage of motor vehicles, equipment, or
supplies; or for the dispatching of service vehicles; or for
distribution of supplies or construction materials required in
connection with a business activity, public utility service,
transportation services, or similar activity. The term "contractor yard"
shall include a construction materials yard, vehicular service center,
or similar use.

Erosion, Accelerated - Erosion of the soil, caused by human activity,
which is greater than that which would normally occur under natural
conditions. Causes of accelerated erosion may include, but not be
limited to, diversion and/or concentration of drainage flows, the
removal of plant cover, any land disturbing activity, or the creation of
new drainage courses which are not prepared to accommodate flows without
erosion.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.070 "F" Definitions

Facade - A building's exterior wall which is exposed to public view.

Facility(s) - The total of all buildings, structures and grounds that
encompass a worksite, at either single or multiple locations, which
comprises or is associated with an applicable development project.

Family - A group of one or more individuals living under one roof.

Farm - An area or parcels of land used for agricultural activities.

Fast-Food Restaurant - See "Restaurant, Fast-Food."

Fence - A solid or open barrier above ground intended to enclose or mark
a boundary.

Financial Institution - An establishment or facility for the custody,
loan, exchange, or issue of money; for the extension of credit; and for
facilitating the transmission of funds.

Fire Authority - That person or agency designated by the City of
Adelanto as the person or agency responsible for providing fire fighting
and other emergency response services to the City.

Flag Lot - see "Lot, Flag."

Flood - For the definition of Flood and related terms, the definitions
contained in the Adelanto Municipal Code shall apply.

Floor Area Ratio - The total gross floor area of all buildings on a lot
divided by the lot area.

Floor Area, Gross - The total horizontal area of a building, in square
feet, including the exterior walls of all floors.

Foster Family Home - Any residential facility providing twenty-four (24)
hour care for six (6) or fewer foster children which is owned, leased,
or rented by, and is the residence of, the foster parents, including
their family, and in whose care the foster children have been placed.

Front Yard - See "Yard, Front"

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.080 "G" Definitions

Garage, Private - As defined in the latest edition of the Uniform
Building Code. Garage, Public - As defined in the latest edition of the
Uniform Building Code.

Garage - An enclosed deck, building, or structure, or part thereof, used
or intended to be used for the parking and storage of vehicles which is
not a carport. See also, "Carport."

General Plan - The General Plan of the City of Adelanto, adopted
pursuant to the State of California Government Code Section 65301 et
seq. and adopted by the City Council.

Government Offices - The working location of any department, commission,
independent agency, or instrumentality of the United States, of a state,
county, incorporated or unincorporated municipality, township,
authority, district, or other governmental unit.

Grade - Grade and all related terms shall be defined according to the
definition contained in the Uniform Building Code.

"Granny" Housing - See "Dependent Housing."

Greenbelt - Land devoted to the preservation of natural desert habitat
resources, drainages, utility easements, and/or use for outdoor
recreation.

Group Home - Any residential care facility for six (6) or fewer persons
which is licensed by the State.

Guest House - Living quarters with bathroom plumbing only located on the
same lot as the primary dwelling unit and intended for temporary
occupancy by family members, guests, or persons employed on the
premises.

Guest Parking - Parking spaces provided with a residential unit for
intermittent use by visitors.

Guest Room - Any room which is used or designed to provide transient
occupancy and sleeping accommodations for one (1) or more paying guests.
Guest rooms occur in hotels, motels, time-shares, bed and breakfasts,
private clubs, lodges, fraternal organizations, and other transient
occupancy facilities.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.090 "H" Definitions

Halloween Pumpkin Sales Facility - A retail sales operation, generally
conducted wholly out-of-doors, that offers for sale on a temporary,
limited basis pumpkins and related holiday items. The allowable sales
period is defined in Chapter 17.75 of this Code.

Hardscape - Any inorganic decorative landscape materials, including but
not limited to, stones, boulders, cobbles, pavers, decorative concrete
and/or mulch, incorporated into an overall landscape design. (Ord. 410,
2003)

Hazardous Fire Area - Any land that is covered with grass, grain, brush,
or forest, whether privately or publicly owned, and which is so situated
or inaccessible that a fire originating upon such land would present an
abnormally difficult job of suppression or would result in great and
unusual damage through fire and resulting erosion.

Hazardous Waste - Defined pursuant to Section 25117 of the State Health
and Safety Code. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Hazardous Waste Facility - Defined pursuant to the State Health and
Safety Code, Section 25117.1.

Home Improvement Center - A retail service engaged in providing retail
sale, rental, service, or repair and installation of home improvement
products including building materials; paint and wallpaper; carpeting
and floor covering; decorating materials; heating, air conditioning,
electrical, plumbing, and mechanical equipment; roofing; yard and garden
supplies; home appliances; and similar home improvement products.

Home Occupation - A commercial activity conducted solely by the
occupants of a particular dwelling unit as defined in Chapter 17.95 of
this Zoning Code.

Horticultural Services - An establishment that provides gardening and
landscaping services. The establishment shall not contain a nursery.

Hospital, Chemical Dependency Recovery - A health facility that provides
twenty-four (24) hour inpatient care for persons who have a dependency
on alcohol or other drugs, or both alcohol and other drugs. Such care
shall include, but not be limited to,'the following basic services:
patient counseling, group therapy, physical conditioning, family
therapy, outpatient services, and dietetic services.

Hospital, General Acute Care - A health facility having a
duly-constituted governing body with overall administrative and
professional responsibility and an organized medical staff which
provides twenty-four (24) hour inpatient care, including the following
basic services: medical, nursing, surgical, anesthesia, laboratory,
radiology, pharmacy, and dietary services.

Hotel - A building or group of buildings containing six (6) or more
guest rooms offering transient lodging accommodations to the general
public and incidental services that are customarily provided by a hotel,
for the convenience of hotel guests, such as food service, recreational
facilities, and retail services; and public banquet, reception, and
meeting rooms. The incidental services that may be provided by a hotel
shall be limited to the services permitted under an approved plan.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.100 "I" Definitions

Impervious Surface - Any surface, including concrete, asphalt, paving
blocks, bricks, waterproof plastic, or other materials, which cover the
soil with a surface impervious to water.

Improvement - The addition of one or more features, structures, or
utilities on a parcel of land.

Irrigation System - A connection of system components, including the
water distribution network and the irrigation equipment downstream from
the backflow prevention device that is necessary to ensure that all
landscape areas and landscape materials are thoroughly and adequately
watered. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Infrastructure - Basic facilities and services needed to sustain
development.

Institutional Use - An organizational use or a public character
including governmental, educational, religious, medical, scientific
research, cultural, social, charitable, nonprofit, and sometimes
recreational or entertainment uses.

Interior Open Space - That open space enclosed by line extensions of the
exterior walls of one or more buildings constructed on a common building
site. (Ord. 410, 2003)

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.110 "J" Definitions

Junk or Salvage Yard - Any area, lot, parcel, building, or structure, or
part thereof, used for the storage, collection, processing, purchase,
sale, or abandonment of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, or other scrap or
discarded goods, materials, machinery, two or more unregistered and
inoperable motor vehicles, or other types of junk.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.120 "K" Definitions

Kennel - Kennel shall be defined as established in the City's Animal
Control Ordinance.

Kitchen - In a dwelling unit, any room or portion of a room which
contains the following combination of facilities of sufficient size for
the preparation of meals for the household: (a) one or more sinks, (b) a
stove, and (c) utilities and location(s) for a refrigerator. (See also
"Stove.")

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.130 "L" Definitions

Landscaping - The planting and continuous maintenance of some
combination of trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers, lawns or
other decorative features to land. This may include the installation of
natural landscape features such as inorganic materials, rock and stone,
earthen berms, walkways, plazas, courtyards, and structural features
including but not limited to fountains, reflecting pools, art works, and
benches. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Landscape Area - The entire yard areas less the footprint of legally
erected structures, driveways, non-irrigated portion of parking lots,
and structures such as desks and patios. Water Features (including pools
and ponds) are included in the calculation of the landscaped areas.
Areas dedicated to edible plants, such as orchards or vegetable gardens,
are not included. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Landscape Materials - Trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers
and/or lawns. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Landscape Plan - A graphic representation of the development of a site
that illustrates the nature, design and location of all landscaping
elements and materials. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Laundromat - An establishment providing washing and drying machines on
the premises for rental use to the general public for laundering of
family clothes.

Laundry Service - An establishment that dry cleans, washes, and dries
clothes, either brought in and carried away by the customer or collected
and delivered primarily by laundry employees.

Loading Space - An off-street space or berth which is on the same lot as
the building(s) it services; abuts a street, alley, or other appropriate
means of access; and is used for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle that is being loaded or unloaded with merchandise, materials, or
people.

Lot - Land which abuts at least one public street or any numbered or
otherwise designated parcel of land which is shown on: 1) a recorded
tract map, 2) a record of survey map recorded pursuant to an approved
division of land, or 3) a parcel map.

Lot, Corner - A lot or parcel of laud abutting upon two (2) or more
streets at their intersection, or upon two (2) parts of the same street
forming an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty-five (135)
degrees.

Lot Coverage - The area of a lot covered by the combination of buildings
and impervious surfaces. See also, "Building Coverage" and "Impervious
Surface."

Lot, Cul-de-Sac - A lot located at any position on the circular portion
of a cul-de-sac street.

Lot, Flag - A lot having access to a street by means of a private
driveway access easement, or parcel of land not meeting the requirements
of this Zoning Code for lot width but having a dimension of at least
twenty (20) feet at its narrowest point.

Lot Frontage - The length of the defined front lot line measured at the
street right-of-way line.

Lot, Interior - A lot other than a corner lot.

Lot, Key - The first interior lot to the rear of a reversed corner lot
which is not separated therefrom by an alley.

Lot, Reversed Corner - A corner lot in which the rear lot line abuts the
side lot line of the nearest lot to its rear.

Lot, Substandard - Any lot that does not meet the minimum dimensions
required by the Municipal Code. The area of any easement which restricts
the normal usage of the lot may be included in the dimensions.

Lot, Through - A lot that fronts upon two (2) streets that do not
intersect at the boundaries of the lot.

Lot Area or Size, Net - The area within a lot exclusive of any
dedications for public rights-of-way, public parks, and public school
sites.

Lot or Building Coverage - The percentage of the net lot area that is
covered by all the buildings on a lot, as seen from a plan view.

Lot Depth - The average linear measurement between the front and rear
lot lines when measured at ninety (90) degree angles from the front lot
line.

Lot Line - The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.

Lot Line, Front - The line separating the narrowest street frontage of
the lot from the street right-of-way.

Lot Line, Rear - The lot line opposite and most distant from the front
lot line; or in the case of an irregularly shaped lot, a straight line
not less than ten (10) feet long within the lot and most nearly parallel
to, and at the maximum distance from, the front lot line.

Lot Line, Side - Any lot lines other than the front or rear lot lines.

Lot Merger - The joining of two (2) or more contiguous parcels of land
under one (1) ownership into one (1) parcel pursuant to the Subdivision
Map Act.

Lot Width - The average linear distance between side lot lines when
measured parallel to the front lot line.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.140 "M" Definitions

Major Street - A type of street designed for multiple users with a
center median separating directional traffic.

Manufactured Home - A dwelling unit certified under the National
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 and
pursuant to Section 18551 of the Health and Safety Code.

Manufacturing - A use engaged in the manufacture, predominantly from
previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of such
products, and incidental processing of extracted or raw materials.

Map Act - The Subdivision Map Act of the State of California.

Merger - See "Lot Merger."

Mini-Warehouse - A structure containing separate storage spaces of three
hundred (300) square feet or less which are designed to be leased or
rented individually.

Minor - Not of legal age, or under 18 years old. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Mixed Use - The development in a compact urban form of a structure or
site with two (2) or more different uses such as, but not limited to,
residential, commercial, recreational, office, manufacturing, or public
uses.

Mobilehome - A structure designed for single-family detached residential
use that has been manufactured pursuant to the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974.

Mobilehome Park or Subdivision - A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more mobilehome lots for sale or rent.

Motel - An establishment otherwise defined as a hotel with at least
twenty-five (25) percent of all rooms having direct access to the
parking areas without the necessity of persons passing through the main
lobby of the building.

Motor Vehicle - A machine capable of self-propulsion, with or without
human guidance, whether for the performance of work or as a mode of
transportation.

Mulch - Any material, organic or inorganic, such as leaves, bark, straw,
gravel, decomposed granite or other materials left loose and applied to
the soil surface to reduce evaporation. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Multi-Family - Where referenced in this Code to determine applicable
development standards and requirements, "multi-faimly" shall apply to
all uses in the R3-8, Zone Districts, regardless of the type of housing
(i.e., attached or detached).

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15;
Ord. No. 650, Section 6, 5/8/24.]

17.200.150 "N" Definitions

Nightclubs, Taverns, Bars - Establishments providing the preparation and
retail sales of alcoholic beverages, as licensed by the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Department.

Noise - Any sound that is undesirable because it is annoying, interferes
with speech or hearing, or is intense enough to damage hearing.

Noise, Ambient - The ail-encompassing noise level associated with a
given environment, being a composite of sounds from all sources,
excluding alleged offensive noises, at the location and approximate time
at which a comparison with alleged offensive noises is to be made.

Nonconforming Land - A parcel -- the size, dimensions, or use of which
was lawful prior to the adoption of, revision of, or amendment to this
Zoning Code but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or
amendment, to conform to the present requirements of this Zoning Code.

Nonconforming Structure - A structure or building -- the size,
dimensions, or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption of,
revision of, or amendment to this Zoning Code -- but which fails by
reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment, to conform to the
present requirements of this Zoning Code.

Nonconforming Use - A use or activity which was lawful prior to the
adoption of, revision of, or amendment to this Zoning Code, but which
tails, by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment, to conform to
the present requirements of this Zoning Code.

North of Holly Road - Includes all land uses north of Holly Road for the
purposes of the Adelanto North 2035 Comprehensive Sustainable Plan.

Nurseries and Horticulture, Retail - Land, gardens, orchards, or
greenhouses used to raise flowers, shrubs, and plants, including the
sale of those items on the premises.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.160 "O" Definitions

Off-Street Parking Space - A permanent parking space for a motor vehicle
which is to City standards and not located on a dedicated street
right-of-way.

Office, Professional - An office in which professional or consulting
services are provided, such as in the fields of law, architecture,
design, engineering, accounting, and similar professions.

On-Street Parking Space - A designated area for parking a motor vehicle
which is located on a dedicated street right-of-way.

Open Space - Any parcel or area of land or water set aside, dedicated,
designated, or reserved for public or private use or enjoyment.

Open Space, Active - Any parcel or area of land or water which is set
aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment, or for the use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land
adjoining or neighboring such open space, and which contains
recreational facilities such as pools and swimming areas, courts and
other game areas, playing fields and equipment, or other required
facilities for various active activities.

Open Space, Common - Land within or related to a development, not
individually owned or dedicated for public use, which is designed and
intended for the common use or enjoyment of the owners of the
development and which may include such complementary structures and
improvements as are approved as necessary and appropriate.

Open Space, Passive - Any parcel or area of land or water which is
essentially unimproved and set aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved
for nonstructured recreational activities in order to preserve the
natural and aesthetic qualities of the area.

Open Space, Private - An open space, fenced or otherwise, designed to
promote privacy, and which is reserved for the exclusive use of by the
occupants of specified dwelling units.

Open Space, Public - Open space owned and maintained by a public agency
for the use and enjoyment of the general public.

Overhang, Roof - The lower part of a roof which extends beyond the
facade of a lower wall.

Overhang, Vehicle - The allowed two foot (2') portion of a parked
vehicle which extends over a curb and/or planted area.

Overlay Zoning District - A zoning district established by ordinance
which may be applied to properties only when combined with a base zoning
district.

Overspray - Water from an irrigation system that is delivered beyond the
landscaped area, wetting pavements, walks, walls, structures, or other
non-landscaped areas. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Owner of Property - The owner of record of any parcel of real property
as designated on the county assessor's tax roll, or a holder of a
subsequently recorded deed to the property.

Owner's Authorized Agent - Any person authorized to act for the owner of
a property by virtue of a notarized statement of authorization, or a
proof of contract to purchase.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.170 "P" Definitions

Parcel - An area of land, the boundaries of which have been legally
established in conformance with the State Subdivision Map Act.

Parcel Map - A map that is made for the purpose of showing the design
and improvement of a proposed subdivision of four (4) or fewer lots and
the existing conditions in and around it, and which need not be based
upon an accurate or detailed final survey of the property.

Parcel Map, Vesting - A parcel map which meets the requirements of
Section 66452 of the California Government Code and which confers a
vested right to develop in compliance with the standards described in
Section 66474.2 of the California Government Code.

Park, Public - An open space intended for public recreational use which
is operated by another government agency.

Parking Area, Private - An area, other than a sheet, designed or used
primarily for the parking of private vehicles and not open to general
public use.

Parking Area, Public - An area, other than a private parking area or
street, used for the parking of vehicles and available for general
public use, either free or for a fee.

Parking Space - A permanent area for the parking of one (1) vehicle
which meets the minimum dimensions, access, and surfacing requirements
established by the City.

Parking Space, Covered - A parking space(s) within a garage, carport, or
parking structure.

Patio - Patio, open and closed, shall be defined according to the
definition contained in the Uniform Building Code.

Permitted Use - Any use allowed in a zoning district by right and
subject to the restrictions applicable to that zoning district.

Permit - Written governmental permission issued by an authorized
official, empowering the holder thereof to do some act not forbidden by
law, but not allowed without such authorization.

Person - Any individual, partnership, corporation, association or other
organization, however formed. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Pervious Surface - Any porous covering of the soil which allows water to
pass through. See also "Impervious Surface."

Pet Shop - Any premises primarily used for the sale of household pets
and pet supplies.

Phase - Any independent and contiguous part or portion of a project
which is developed as a unit in the same time period.

Planning Commission - The Planning Commission of the City of Adelanto,
established pursuant to the provisions of Section 65101 of the
Government Code.

Platform - A structure less than 30 inches (30") above grade which
extends outward from a building (typically a home), and which has a
walking surface. Platforms do not require a building permit. See also
"Balcony" and Deck."

Porch - A covered pedestrian entrance to a building which is located on
the first floor level.

Pre-Existing Use - The use of a lot or structure prior to the enactment
of specific Zoning Code provisions.

Premises - A lot or building site, or a specified portion of a lot or
building site, that meets the requirements needed for the location,
maintenance, and operation of a use on the property.

Principal Building/Structure - The primary or predominant building or
structure on a lot.

Principal Use - The primary or predominant use of any lot.

Project - The entire parcel of real property, including all structures
thereon, all or part of which undergoes or is proposed to undergo
construction, demolition, or a change in ownership status.

Property -   (a)   All nonresidential zoned real property and any
building located on such property (referred to as "nonresidential
property"), and

      (b)   front yards, the unfenced portions of side yards, the
unfenced portion of back yards of corner lots, driveways, walkways and
sidewalks of all residential real property, including any building
located on such property (referred to as "residential property"). (Ord.
410, 2003)

Property Owner - The legal owner of the applicable development project
who serves as the lessor to an employer or tenant.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.180 "Q" Definitions

Quasi-Public - A use owned or operated by a nonprofit, religious, or
charitable institution and providing educational, cultural,
recreational, religious, or similar types of public programs.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.190 "R" Definitions

Rear Yard - See "Yard, Rear."

Rebuild - To undertake construction within and/or on an existing
building that has a valid construction permit.

Reception Window - Reception window means the area within the direct
line between a satellite antenna and those orbiting communications
satellites carrying available programming.

Reclaimed Water - Water which has been processed by a municipal or
comparable wastewater treatment plant and/or otherwise made available
for reuse which has been approved by federal, state or local regulatory
agencies. (Ord. 410, 2003)

Recreational Vehicle - A vehicular portable structure without permanent
foundation which can be towed, hauled, or driven; which is primarily
designed as a temporaiy living accommodation for recreational, camping,
and travel use; and which may include, but is not limited to, travel
trailers, truck campers, camping trailers, boats, and self-propelled
motor homes.

Recreational Vehicle Park - An area used or intended to be used for
camping in recreational vehicles.

Recycling Facilities - Any center for the collection of recyclable
materials. A recycling facility does not include storage containers on
commercial property which are used solely for the recycling of material
generated by that business. Recycling facilities include reverse vending
machines, small collection recycling facilities, mobile recycling units,
and large collection recycling facilities.

Recycling Facilities, Commercial - A for-profit recycling facility. See
also "Recycling Facilities."

Renewable Energy - Energy derived from sources which are continually
replenished on a human timescale such as sunlight (solar), wind and
geothermal.

Replacement Cost - The actual cost to replace or reconstruct a damaged
structure, facility, or feature, as determined by the appraisal of a
qualified and approved appraiser.

Restaurant, Drive-In - A building or portion thereof in which food
and/or beverages are sold in a form ready for consumption and where all
or a significant portion of the consumption of food takes place outside
the confines of the building, often in a motor vehicle.

Restaurant, Sit-Down - An establishment where food and drink is
prepared, served, and consumed primarily within the principal building.

Restaurant, Fast-Food - A restaurant that supplies food and beverages
primarily in disposable containers, and which is characterized by high
automobile accessibility, self-service, and short stays by customers.

Restaurant, Walk-Up - Any establishment where food and/or beverages are
sold to the consumer and provision is made for the serving and
consumption of food or beverages outside the confines of the main
building, but not usually in.

Retail - The selling of goods, wares, or merchandise directly to the
ultimate consumer.

Reverse Vending Machine - A machine that dispenses money to consumers in
exchange for glass bottles, aluminum cans, and other recyclable
containers.

Riding and Hiking Trails - A trail or way designed for or used by
equestrians, pedestrians, and/or cyclists using non-motorized bicycles.

Right of Way - A defined area of land, either public or private, on
which a right of passage has been recorded.

Riparian Habitat - An environment associated with freshwater
watercourses, including perennial and intermittent steams, lakes, and
other bodies of fresh water, and characterized by plants and animals
which are dependent upon the availability of water in the resource.

Room - An area of a building fully enclosed by walls, windows, doors, a
roof, and a floor.

Room, Primary - A living room, dining room, or family room.

Room, Secondary - All rooms other than primary rooms.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.200 "S" Definitions

Salvage - The recovery of waste materials.

Salvaged/Harvested Water - Storm water collected for landscape use.
(Ord. 410, 2003)

Satellite Antenna - Any antenna used to receive and/or transmit radio or
television signals from orbiting communication satellites.

Scenic Highway - A highway, road, drive, or street which, in addition to
its transportation function, provides opportunities for the enjoyment of
natural and man-made scenic resources and access to, or direct views to,
areas or scenes of exceptional beauty or historic or cultural interest.
The aesthetic values of scenic routes often are protected and enhanced
by regulations governing the development of property or the placement of
outdoor advertising.

Screening - A method of visually shielding or obscuring one abutting or
nearby structure or use from another by fencing, walls, berms, or
densely planted vegetation.

Secondhand Store - Any premises used for the sale or handling of used
goods. A secondhand store includes an establishment for the sale or
trade of used clothing, furniture, and appliances. A secondhand store
does not include an establishment selling primarily used jewelry, old
coins, or old stamps.

Service Station - A retail place of business engaged primarily in the
sale of petroleum products, and goods and services required in the
operation and maintenance of motor vehicles under one-and-one-half (1.5)
ton capacity as the same is defined by the State Motor Vehicle Code and
in which maintenance, minor repairs, washing, and lubrication services
are conducted wholly within the service station building.

Setback - The distance from a defined point or line governing the
placement of buildings, structures, parking, or uses on a lot.

Setback Line - A line within a lot, parallel to and measured from a
corresponding lot line, forming the boundary of a required yard and
governing the placement of buildings, structures, parking, or uses on a
lot.

Shopping Center - A group of three (3) or more commercial establishments
planned, constructed, and managed as a total entity including: customer
and employee parking provided on site; provision for goods delivery
separated from customer access; aesthetic design considerations; and
protection from the elements.

Side Yard - See "Yard, Side."

Sidewalk - A paved surface or leveled area used as a pedestrian walkway
which parallels and is usually separated from the street.

Sign - Signs are defined as established in Chapter 17.70 of this Zoning
Code.

Sign, Non-Commercial - Any sign which does not advertise a commercial
enterprise. This shall include signs advertising political parties or
candidates, ballot measures, or expressions of opinion.

Sign, Temporary - Any sign designed and/or manufactured to be displayed
for a period of one year or less. These signs will typically be made of
fabric or canvas, or of wood or a similar material.

Single Family - Where used in this Code to determine appropriate
development standards and requirements, "single family" shall refer only
to development in the R1, R1-.5, DL-2.5, DL-5 and DL-9 Zone Districts.

Site - Any lot or parcel of land, or combination of contiguous lots or
parcels of land, used or intended for a particular use or group of uses.

Site Coverage - The amount of a lot or lots covered by buildings,
pavement, and other impervious surfaces.

Site Plan - A plan drawn to scale, showing uses and structures proposed
for a property as required by the applicable regulations, including lot
lines, streets, grades, building sites, reserved open space, and other
specific development proposals.

Skilled Nursing Facility - A health facility that provides skilled
nursing care and supportive care to patients whose primary need is for
availability of skilled nursing care on an extended basis.

Slope - The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal,
usually expressed in percent or degrees.

Solid Fence - A wooden fence or wall with no openings.

South of Holly Road - Includes all land uses south of Holly Road for the
purposes of the Adelanto North 2035 Comprehensive Sustainable Plan.

Specific Plan - Under Article 8 of the Government Code (Section 65450 et
seq.), a legal tool for detailed design and implementation of a defined
portion of the area covered by a general plan. A specific plan may
include all detailed regulations, conditions, programs, and/or proposed
legislation which may be necessary or convenient for the systematic
implementation of any general plan element(s).

Stable, Private - A building or portion of a building used to shelter
and feed horses or ponies which are used exclusively by the occupants of
the property on which the stable is situated.

Stable, Public - A stable other than a private stable.

Standards, Development - Requirements in this Zoning Code that govern
building and development, including, but not limited to, lot area,
height limits, frontage, landscaping, and floor area ratio.

Stock Cooperative - A corporation that holds title to improved real
property, either in fee simple or for a term of years. All or
substantially all of the shareholders have a right of exclusive
occupancy in a portion of the property, and the right of occupancy is
transferable only concurrently with the transfer of the corporate stock.

Story - Story and all related terms shall be defined according to the
definition contained in the Uniform Building Code.

Stove - This includes any type of built-in or installed appliance
utilizing gas or electric heat for the external heating and cooking of
food. A stove may include a range top and an oven in a single unit or in
separate units; the presence of either a built-in or installed range top
or oven shall qualify as a stove. For the purposes of this definition,
the following are not considered to be stoves: (a) microwave ovens and
(b) hot plates, toaster ovens, or other countertop devices utilizing
120-volt current. (See also "Dwelling Unit" and "Kitchen" as defined in
this Zoning Code.)

Street - A publicly accessible vehicular right-of-way, other than an
alley, which affords a primary means of access to abutting property.

Streetscape - That portion of a lot's net area and improvements which is
exposed to view from the street.

Structure - A combination of materials which is assembled for use,
occupancy, or ornamentation, whether installed on, above, or below the
surface of land or water. Includes, but is not limited to, any building,
road, pipe, flume, conduit, siphon, aqueduct, telephone line, or
electrical power transmission and distribution area.

Subdivision - The division of a tract of land into defined lots, either
improved or unimproved, which can be separately conveyed by sale or
lease, and which can be altered or developed. "Subdivision" includes a
condominium project as defined in Section 1350 of the California Civil
Code and a community apartment project as defined in Section 11004 of
the Business and Professions Code.

Supermarket - A retail store of at least 15,000 square feet in size
selling a full range of food products for household use, including
groceries, produce, dairy products, meats, and related items. The sale
of food products shall be the primary use, in terms of floor area
devoted to display space; the sale of alcoholic beverages (for off-site
consumption only) is permitted, so long as it is incidental to the sale
of groceries and food.

Supporting Uses - Uses of land or buildings which are important, but not
necessarily essential, to the primary use.

Supportive Housing - Housing with no limit on length of stay, that is
occupied by the target population, and that is linked to an onsite or
offsite service that assists the supportive housing resident in
retaining the housing, improving his or her health status, and
maximizing his or her ability to live and, when possible, work in the
community.

Surface, Impervious - See "Impervious Surface."

Surface, Pervious - See "Pervious Surface."

Swap Meet - A business or businesses conducted for the purpose of
selling new or used merchandise in a parking lot, drive-in theater, or
common room(s) where two (2) or more individual sellers rent, lease, or
otherwise purchase the right to sell their products at the location. A
flea market (open-air sale of used goods) is considered a swap meet.

Swimming Pool, Private - A water-filled enclosure, permanently
constructed or portable, having a depth of more than twenty four inches
(24") below the level of the surrounding land, or an above-surface pool,
having a depth of more than twenty four inches (24"), designed, used,
and maintained as an accessory use for swimming and bathing by not more
than three (3) owner families and their guests and intended for
non-commercial use.

Swimming Pool, Public - Any swimming pool other than a private pool.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.210 "T" Definitions

Temporary Sign - See "Sign, Temporary."

Temporary Structure - A structure without any foundation or footings
which will be removed when the designated time period, activity, or use
for which the temporary structure was erected has ceased.

Temporary Use - A use established for a fixed period of time with the
intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time period.

Tenant - The lessee of facility space at an applicable development
project who also serves as an employer.

Townhouse - A single-family attached dwelling organized in a row of at
least three (3) such units in which each unit has its own front and rear
access to the outside, no unit is located over another unit, and each
unit is separated from any other unit by one or more common and
fire-resistant walls.

Tract - An area, parcel, site, piece of land, or property which is the
subject of a development application.

Tract House - A dwelling in a comprehensively designed residential
development that contains lots and houses similar in size and
appearance.

Trailer - A structure standing on wheels which can be towed or hauled by
another vehicle and which is used for short-term human occupation;
carrying of materials, goods, or objects; or as a temporary office.

Trailer, Construction - A trailer, the use of which is incidental to new
construction on a site, including but not limited to temporary office
space for the direction of on-site construction activities.

Transitional Housing - Buildings configured as rental housing
developments, but operated under program requirements that require the
termination of assistance and recirculating of the assisted unit to
another eligible program recipient at a predetermined future point in
time that shall be no less than six months from the beginning of the
assistance.

Truck Terminal - A lot, lot area, or parcel of land used, designed, or
maintained for the purpose of storing, parking, refueling, repairing,
dispatching, servicing, or keeping motor trucks and associated equipment
together with those facilities necessary to service, dispatch, store, or
maintain such vehicles, their cargos and crews.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.220 "U" Definitions

Ultimate Right-of-Way - The defined future right-of-way shown on an
adopted precise plan of highway alignment, or the street rights-of-way
shown within the boundary of a recorded tract map, a recorded parcel
map, or other recorded permit. The latest adopted or recorded document
in the above case shall take precedence. If none of these exist, the
ultimate right-of-way shall be considered the right-of-way required by
the roadway classification as shown in the Circulation Element of the
General Plan.

Underground or Subterranean Parking - Parking areas located below grade,
used solely for parking purposes.

Undeveloped Land - Land in its natural state without any infrastructure,
buildings, or other improvements.

Use - The purpose for which land or a building is used, arranged,
designed, or intended, or for which the land or building is or may be
occupied or maintained.

Use, Permitted - A use listed by the provisions of any particular
district as a permitted use within that district and permitted therein
as a matter of right and/or subject to Planning Use Permit review when
conducted in accord with the regulations established by the Zoning Code.

Use, Principal - A use that fulfills a primary function of a household,
establishment, institution, or other entity.

Utility, Private or Public - Any closely regulated agency which, under
public franchise or ownership, or under certificate of convenience and
necessity, provides the public with electricity, gas, heat, steam,
communication, rail transportation, water, sewage collection, or other
similar service.

Utility Services - Establishments engaged in the generation,
transmission, and/or distribution of electricity, gas, or steam,
including water and irrigation systems, and sanitary systems used for
the collection and disposal of garbage, sewage, and other wastes by
means of destroying or processing materials.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.230 "V" Definitions

Variance - Permission to depart from the provisions of this Zoning Code
when, due to special circumstances applicable to the property, strict
application of the requirements deprives such property of privileges
enjoyed by other property in the vicinity which is under identical
zoning (see Chapters 17.135 and 17.140).

Vehicle - Device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved
or drawn upon a highway, excepting a device moved exclusively by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 410,
2003)

Vested Right - A right which has been legally established and cannot be
revoked by subsequent conditions or changes in law without due process
of law.

Veterinarian - A licensed doctor who operates a medical facility
licensed by the State Department of Public Health for the treatment of
household pets, excluding species of equine. The use may include the
overnight care of household pets.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.240 "W" Definitions

Wall - A substantial solid barrier intended to enclose, separate, or
surround, and typically four (4) inches or more in thickness.

Wholesale - A sale of commodities or goods to others for resale and not
normally to the ultimate consumer.

Window - An opening which is in a wall of a building, designed to allow
light and/or ventilation into the building, enclosed by casement or
sash, and containing glass or other similar transparent or
semitransparent material.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.250 "X" Definitions

Xeriscape - Landscaping characterized by the use of vegetation that is
drought-resistant or low-water-use in character.

Xeriscape Landscaping - A water conservation concept that stresses the
use of the appropriate plant material and irrigation techniques which
are well suited for the local micro-climate. This concept incorporates
native plants, selected hardscapes, and proper planting and irrigation
techniques that improve the overall water efficiency of a landscape
system. (Ord. 410, 2003)

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.260 "Y" Definitions

Yard - An open space on a developed lot that, except as otherwise
provided in this Zoning Code, is unoccupied or unobstructed from the
ground upwards; and, when a yard dimension is given, it represents the
minimum horizontal distance between the lot line from which the distance
must be measured and a line parallel to the lot line.

Yard, Front - The open space extending across the full width of the
front of the lot, the depth of which is the horizontal distance between
the front lot line and the front setback line.

Yard, Rear - The open space extending across the full width of the rear
of lot, the depth of which is the horizontal distance between the rear
lot line and the rear setback line.

Yard, Side - The space between the side lot line and the side yard
setback line, extending from the front setback line to the rear setback
line.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

17.200.270 "Z" Definitions

Zoning District - A specifically delineated area or district within a
municipality in which regulations and requirements uniformly govern the
use, placement, spacing, and size of land and buildings. Also known as
Zone District.

Zoning Map - The map or maps which are a part of the Zoning Code and
delineate the boundaries of zoning districts.

[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]

APPENDICES

   Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zoning District

Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zoning District

Click here to view Appendix A as a PDF document.

KEY:

P = Use permitted by right with Location and Development Plan Approval
(subject to all local, State, and other applicable Code requirements)

C = Use requires Conditional Use Permit (Chapter 17.30 Adelanto Zoning
Code)

Cm = Use Requires a Minor Conditional Use Permit (Chapter 17.30 Adelanto
Zoning Code)

A = Use permitted as accessory use only (when such use is directly
related to the primary use)

T = Use permitted as temporary use only (see Chapter 17.75)

  ------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Residential Zoning Districts:   Commercial and Mixed Use Zoning Districts:   Business Park and Manufacturing Zoning Districts:   Public Facility, Public Utility, Open Space, Public Land and Schools and Greenbelt Corridors Districts:
  ------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Residential Zoning Districts:                Commercial and Mixed Use Zoning Districts:   Business Park and Manufacturing Zoning Districts:   Public Facility, Public Utility, Open Space, Public Land and Schools and Greenbelt Corridors Districts:
  DL-9 = Desert Living 1 unit/9 acres          C = General Commercial                       LM = Light Manufacturing                            PU = Public Utility
  DL-5 = Desert Living 1 unit/5 acres          MU = Mixed Use                               LMCO=Light Manufacturing Cannabis Only              PF = Public Facility
  DL-2.5 = Desert Living 1 unit/2.5 acres                                                   MI = Manufacturing Industrial                       OS = Open Space
  R-S1 = Single Family Residential                                                          ADD = Airport Development District                  DE = Greenbelt Corridor: Drainage Easement
  R1-.5 = Single Family Residential (½ Acre)                                                BP = Business Park                                  UE = Greenbelt Corridor: Utility Easement
  R1 = Single Family Residential                                                                                                                 
  R-S5 = Single Family Residential                                                                                                               
  R3-8 = Medium Density Residential                                                                                                              
  R-M12 = Medium Density Residential                                                                                                             
  R3-30 = High Density Residential                                                                                                               
  AP = Airport Park                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                
  -------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

LAND USE

Zone District

Residential

Commercial and Mixed Use

Business and Manufacturing

Public Facility, Public Utility, Open Space, Public Land and Schools and
Greenbelt Corridors Districts

DL (9,5,2.5)

R-S1

R1-.5

R1

R-S5

R3-8

R-M12

R3-30

AP

MU

C

LM

LMCO

MI

ADD

BP

PU

PF

OS

DE

UE

LAND USE

Zone District

Residential

Commercial and Mixed Use

Business and Manufacturing

Public Facility, Public Utility, Open Space, Public Land and Schools and
Greenbelt Corridors Districts

DL (9,5,2.5)

R-S1

R1-.5

R1

R-S5

R3-8

R-M12

R3-30

AP

MU

C

LM

LMCO

MI

ADD

BP

PU

PF

OS

DE

UE

AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION and ANIMAL SERVICES7

Animal Keeping (subject to provisions of Title 7- Animals)11

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

Animal Shelter (on lots greater than 2.5 acres only)

Cm

C

C

C

C

Cannabis Facilities excluding dispensaries

C

C

C

C

Feed and Grain Sales

C

P

P

P

Horses (Boarding and Raising as a Business), Kennels (subject to
provisions of Title 7- Animals on lots greater than 2.5 acres only)

C

Taxidermist

P

P

P

Veterinarian/Veterinary Hospital/Pet Grooming

C

P

P

P

P

P

P

RESIDENTIAL

Bed and Breakfast

P

P

P

P

P

P

Dwelling Unit, Multiple Family, Two-Family (Duplex), Condominium

P

P

P

P

Dwelling Unit, Single-Family (detached)

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Dwelling Unit - Second Units/ Dependent Housing/Granny Flats

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Day Care Center, Adult Day Health and Child Care (Subject to California
Department of Social Services)

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

Day Care Home, Large Family (14 or fewer children), (Subject to
California Department of Social Services)

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

Day Care Home, Small Family (8 or fewer children, (Subject to California
Department of Social Services)

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

C

Group Homes not licensed by the State with 2 or more residents

C

C

C

C

C

Single Room Occupancy Facilities

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Transitional and Supportive Housing

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Emergency and Homeless Shelters

P

C

C

C

Residential Care Facility (7 or more persons)

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

Residential Care Facility for 6 or fewer persons (includes facilities
licensed and/or controlled by California Department of Social Services)

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Home Occupation (Use allowed subject to Chapter 17.95)

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

Fraternal/Sorority Hall, Rooming

P

P

C

C

Manufactured Home, Mobile Home (includes individual unit placed in a
residential subdivision)

P

P

P

P

P

P

Manufactured/Mobile Home Parks

C

Mobile Homes Sales

P

P

Model Home

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

Game Courts (Badminton/Tennis/Racquetball/ Other) and Swimming Pool,
Private

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

A

INSTITUTIONAL

   Educational

Education Institution (including private, commercial, and vocational
schools, **card room related training only)

C1

C

C

C

C

P

Education Institution, Public (Subject to LDP approval)

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Prisons/Correctional Facilities

C

C

C

    Medical

Chiropractic/Physical Therapy Office

P

P

P

P

Hospitals and Clinics

P

C

C

C

P

C

C

Medical/Dental Offices

P

P

P

P

P

P

Laboratories, Medical and Dental

C

P

P

P

P

Pharmacy (see also Drugstore)2, 9

P

P

P

P

Convalescent Hospital, Skilled Nursing Facility

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

P

    Public

Conference ro Convention Centers

P

C

C

C

C

P

C

Parks, Plazas and Trails

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Visitor Centers

P

P

  Religious/Non-Profit

Churches, Temples, other religious institutions, non-profits (except
administrative offices- see Offices). In residential zones, vehicular
access shall be only from major arterial or major collector as
designated in the General Plan Circulation Element.

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

P

P

C

C

C

C

COMMERCIAL

    Alcoholic Beverage Establishments

Alcoholic Beverage Onsite Sales in establishments open to persons over
the legal drinking age exclusively, not allowed within 1,000 feet of any
residential zoning district or residential use, churches, parks, and/or
educational institutions3

C

Alcoholic Beverage Onsite Sales in establishments open to persons over
the legal drinking age exclusively, more than 1,000 feet from any
residential zoning district or residential use, churches, parks, and/or
educational institutions3

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

Alcoholic Beverage Onsite Sales as part of a bona fide sit down
(non-age- restricted) restaurant3

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Alcoholic Beverage Offsite Sales within a supermarket or drug store
2,3,9

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Alcoholic Beverage Offsite Sales in any store other than a supermarket
or drug store 2,3,9

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

Wineries3

C

P

P

P

   Automobile, Vehicle Rentals and Sales Related Uses

Automobile Auction

C

C

C

Automobiles/Recreational Vehicles/Boats/Motorcycles/Trucks4, Sales- New
& Used, and Rentals

P

P

P

P

Service Station/Gas Station (Petroleum Products), including automobile
service and Car Wash4,9

P

C

P

P

P

C

Parking Lot and Parking Garages, Public4

C

P

P

P

P

C

  Automobile, Vehicle Service and Repair

Automobile Accessory Sales and Installation, including parts supply (No
overnight outside storage or parking; body work prohibited)4,6

C

P

P

P

P

 

 

 

 

 

Automobile Service (Lubrication, Tune-ups, emission tests, batteries,
mufflers, etc. No use of impact wrenches or other equipment that could
create noise impacts; No overnight outside storage or parking; Paint,
body work, upholstery prohibited)4,6

C

C

P

P

P

 

 

 

 

 

Automobile Minor Repair (Brakes, tires, radiators, electrical, etc. No
overnight outside storage or parking; Paint, body work, upholstery
prohibited)4,6

C

C

P

P

P

Automobile Paint, Body, and Upholstery Shops4,6

C

C

C

C

  Communications/Utilities Distribution and Transmission

Cellular, Microwave Antenna/Towers and related equipment buildings8

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

Gas Distribution, Meter, and Control Station

P

P

P

P

C

Electricity Distribution & Transmission Substation (<5,000 SF)

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

P

P

P

P

P

P

C

C

Electricity Distribution & Transmission Substation (>5,000 SF)

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

Power Generating Facilities, Solar Energy and/or Wind Energy Conversion
Systems >500 Kw10

C

C

C

C

C

Solar Energy and/or Wind Energy Conversion Systems <500 Kw

Cm

Cm

Cm

Cm

Cm

Cm

Cm

Cm

Cm

Cm

Cm

Cm

C

Cm

Solar Energy and/or Wind Energy Conversion Systems <25 Kw

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

C

Radio/Television Broadcasting Studios (including Recording Studios)

P

P

P

P

P

P

A

A

Telephone Repeater Stations

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

P

P

P

C

C

P

C

C

  Eating and Drinking Establishments

Bakery, Coffeehouse, Delicatessen, Ice Cream Parlor, and other similar
eating establishments2

C

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Catering Service

C

P

P

P

P

P

P

Nightclubs/Taverns/Bars3,9

C

C

C

C

Restaurant, No Alcohol Sales

C

P

P

P

P

P

C

P

Restaurant, Drive-Thru2, no alcohol sales

C

C

C

C

C

C

Restaurant, with Alcohol Sales3

See “Alcoholic Beverage Onsite Sales”

    Entertainment/Recreation

Adult Business (subject to Adult Business Ordinance)

C

Amusement Park, Entertainment Center (including Arcade, Live Theater,
Bowling, Ice and Roller Skating, Indoor Soccer and Hockey Arena)

C

C

C

C

C

Billiard/Pool Hall9

C

C

C

C

Batting Cages, Indoor or Outdoor

P

P

P

P

P

Card Rooms9

C

C

Carnival, Circus, or Fair

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

Club - Athletic, Health, or Recreation (including Dance Studios)

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

Dance Hall/Dance Club

C

C

C

C

C

Game Courts, Commercial

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

P

C

Golf Course and Driving Range, Clubhouse, Country Club

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

C

Movie Theater

P

P

Shooting Range, Indoor and Outdoor (outdoor ranges prohibited in the C
and OS)

C

C

C

C

C

Stable, Public (Boarding/Riding) and Private - Boarding allowed as
accessory use in DL

P

A

C

C

Food and Beverage Stores

Convenience Market, Health Food Store2,3,9

C

P

P

P

P

Drug store2,3,9

P

P

P

Grocery Store, Retail, Discount, and Club Stores2,3,9

P

P

P

P

P

    General Merchandise Stores

Department Store, Specialty Stores

P

P

Discount Stores, Home Improvement Center

P

P

P

   Lodging

Hotel, Motel *(more than 50 rooms requires a CUP)

P

P*

P

P

Recreational Vehicle Park and Campgrounds

C

C

C

   Offices

Administrative, Professional, and Other Related Offices

P

P

P

A

A

P

A

Financial Institutions (Banks, Credit Unions, Check Cashing, Pay
Advance, Money Transfer, etc.)2

P

P

P

P

P

P

   Business Services

Copy Services, Postal Services, and Parcel Delivery Service

P

P

P

P

P

P

  Personal Services7

Barber/Beauty Shop/Cosmetologist/Massage Parlor/ Acupuncturist

P

P

P

Cemetery/Mausoleums

C

C

Dressmaker/Tailor Shop

P

P

P

P

Dry Cleaner (Storefront Type); Laundry Service2

P

P

P

P

P

Funeral Parlor, Mortuary

C

C

P

P

    Repair and Maintenance Services7

Shoe and Watch Repair/Sales, Locksmith

P

P

P

P

P

P

A

Janitorial Service, Pest Control Service

P

P

P

P

P

P

Retail7

Temporary Uses and Structures (Subject to Chapter 17.75)

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

General Retail Sales (including the following: Antiques, Appliance
Sales/Repairs; Art Gallery/Supplies; Books/Music; Clothing/Accessories;
Costumes; Coins/Collectables; Food Products; Glass Shops/Studios;
Hardware; Hobby, Gift, and Floral Shops; Home Improvement Goods/Home
Furnishings; Medical Supplies; Newsstands; Nursery/Garden Equipment;
Office Equipment/Supplies; Pet Shop; Photography Studio/Photofinishing;
Sporting Goods; Toy Stores9

C1

C1

P

P

P

P

P

C

A

Pawnshop, Secondhand Store

P

P

P

INDUSTRIAL7

Ambulance Service

P

P

Printing, Publishing, Bookbinding (including Lithographic and Newspaper
Printing)

P

P

P

P

P

Recreational Vehicle Repair, Supplies

C1

P

P

P

Laboratories, Chemical, Research, and Testing

C

C

C

C

Machine/Sheet Metal Shop, Metal Engraving, Silk Screen Shop

C1

C

P

P

P

P

Industrial/Heavy Equipment, Sales, Service, and Rental (including, but
not limited to Construction Equipment; Refrigeration; Vending Machines)

C

P

P

Junk, Salvage, Vehicle Wrecking, and Impound Yard

C

C

Outdoor Storage, as a Primary use

C

C

C

Recycling Facilities, Commercial

C

C

C

Recycling Facilities, Public (collection only)

P

C

C

C

C

Sanitary Landfill, Waste Haulers, Material Recovery Facility

C

Sewage Treatment Plant

P

P

C

C

Upholstery Shop, Welding Shop

C1

P

P

P

    Construction7

Building Materials/Lumber/ Plumbing Supply Yard

P

P

P

Construction Office (on the same site as the construction activity)

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

T

Contractor Storage Yard, Machinery Storage Yard

T

C

C

C

Horticultural (Landscape and Gardening) Services

C

P

P

P

P

P

Manufacture and wholesale7

Assembly, Manufacturing (Including food and beverage production and
processing), Restoration of Goods; Except Tires

C1

P

P

P

C

Batch plants, aggregate products and other similar manufacturing uses

C

C

Dry Cleaning Plant, Large-Scale Commercial Type

P

P

P

Oil Exploration, Drilling, and Production (Limited to areas w/minimum
lot size)

C

Sand and Gravel Pit, subject to Surface Materials and Reclamation Act
(SMARA)

C

C

Swap Meet9

T

T

C

C

C

T

T

Wholesale Businesses (Including Electrical, Mechanical, Carpentry,
Cabinetry)

C1

C

P

P

P

C

  Warehouse/Distribution/Storage/Transportation7

Transfer, Moving, and Storage

C

C

C

Truck Terminals (includes Freight to Freight, Cross Dock, Parcel
Delivery Terminals), Truck Parking

C

C

Truck and Trailer (and similar heavy transportation equipment) Sales,
Repair (all repair to be conducted entirely within an enclosed
building)5

C1

C

C

C

Mini-Warehouse/Storage Facilities/Recreational Vehicle Storage (in AP
zone - Aviation hangar less than 10,000 square feet is a permitted use,
over 10,000 square feet requires a CUP), may include one (1) caretaker
unit.

C1

C

C

C

C

C

Warehouse/Distribution, Cold Storage (in AP zone - Aviation hangar less
than 10,000 square feet is a permitted use, over 10,000 square feet
requires a CUP)

C1

P

P

P

C

 

Note: Uses not shown above as Permitted, Conditionally Permitted,
Accessory, or Temporary are prohibited in the zoning district as
determined by the Director of Planning or their designee.

Footnotes:

1.   Aviation/Aircraft related uses only in the AP zone.

2.   Drive-thru requires Conditional Use Permit (CUP). A minor
Conditional Use Permit (CUPm) may be allowed under certain
circumstances, see Chapter 17.25 .

3.   Use allowed subject to Chapter 17.25 .

4.   Light duty trucks, less than 2 ton carrying capacity.

5.   Heavy duty trucks, greater than 2 tons carrying capacity.

6.   All uses shall be conducted in a fully enclosed building.

7.   Sales, storage, or use, of any materials classified as toxic or
hazardous by either the federal or state government as a substantial
part of the total use shall require a CUP, as shall the parking or
storage of vehicles used to carry such materials.

8.   Co-location and wall antennas require LDPm/CUPm when placed on
existing structures per Code, all other proposals require review and
approval of an LDP/CUP.

9.   No tobacco retailer shall be permitted to sell, donate, distribute,
or deliver to any person(s) tobacco products within 1,000 feet of any
playground, church, public library, school, or any childcare facility or
similar entity providing structured, organized care for youth; see
Section 17.80.040 .

10.   Power Generating Facilities, Solar Energy and/or Wind Energy
Conversion Systems >500 Kw are allowed in all zones west of Richardson
Road and/or north of Calleja Avenue with approval of a LDP/CUP.

11.   Until referenced to R3-30 is included in Title 7 of the Municipal
Code, Animal Keeping shall be allowed in the R3-30 district the same as
is allowed in the R3-8 district.

12.   Only allowed in industrial parks.

(Amendment adopted May, 2008; Ord. No. 497, Section 5, 5/12/10; Ord. No.
502, Section 5, 4/27/11; Ord. No. 511, Exhibit B, 3/28/12; Ord. No. 515,
Exhibit C, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit C, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535,
Exhibit E, 5/27/15; Ord. No. 539, 11/23/15; Ord. No. 581, Sections 3, 4,
12/13/17; Ord. No. 586, Section 5, 5/9/18, Ord. No. 587, Section 3,
5/23/18; Ord. No. 600, Section 3, 5/8/19; Ord. No. 635, Section 3,
10/14/22; Ord. No. 641, 5/10/23; Ord. No. 654, Section 3, 10/23/24.)

CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES

References to California Codes

References to Ordinances

REFERENCES TO CALIFORNIA CODES

Business and Professions Code

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  ------------ --------------

  ---------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  State Cite                                     Code Section
  Division 2 (commencing with § 500)             5.60.010
  Ch. 2 (commencing with § 5299) of Division 3   17.70.115
  Ch. 8 (commencing with § 6850) of Division 3   10.20.032
  4600 et seq.                                   5.60.520
  4600                                           5.60.520
  4827                                           7.04.030
  5402                                           17.70.115
  5412                                           17.70.115
  7581(e)                                        5.20.010
  8771                                           16.04.050
  11004                                          17.200.200
  11010.8                                        16.44.020
  11018                                          17.80.080, 17.80.090
  19300.5                                        8.60.020
  21628                                          5.32.050
  23000 et seq.                                  9.90.025, 9.90.030
  23004                                          9.35.020
  26000 et seq.                                  17.80.080, 17.80.090 - 17.80.120
  26001                                          17.80.080, 17.80.090 - 17.80.120
  26050                                          17.80.080, 17.80.090 - 17.80.120
  26070                                          17.80.100, 17.80.101
  26100                                          17.80.080, 17.80.090 - 17.80.120
  26106                                          17.80.090, 17.80.100, 17.80.120
  26120                                          17.80.090, 17.80.100, 17.80.120
  26130                                          17.80.090
                                                  
                                                 
  ---------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------

 

Civil Code

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  ------------ --------------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------
  State Cite                                                            Code Section
  Title 6 (commencing with § 1350), Part 4, Division 2                  16.44.030
  Art. 3 (commencing with § 3114) Ch. 2, Title 15, Part 4, Division 3   16.04.070
  Part 3 of Division 4                                                  8.30.180
  714(c)(3)                                                             14.38.020
  714(d)(1)(A),(B)                                                      14.38.020
  783                                                                   16.080.010
  798 et seq.                                                           16.44.030
  798.56                                                                16.08.010
  1350                                                                  17.200.200
  1714.1(b)                                                             9.45.090
  1722(b)(1)-(6)                                                        5.40.080
  3479                                                                  9.80.020
  4080                                                                  10.40.050, 14.38.040
                                                                        
  --------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------

 

Civil Procedure Code

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  ------------ --------------

  ---------------------------------------------- --------------------
  State Cite                                     Code Section
  Title 7 (commencing with § 1230.010), Part 3   16.08.050
  Chapter 2 of Part 2                            8.30.180
  415.10                                         1.20.020
  415.20                                         1.20.020
  446                                            9.80.090
  771.010                                        16.04.050
  1094.5                                         5.64.070, 5.04.120
  1094.6                                         3.60.140, 5.04.120
  1094.6 et seq.                                 8.05.110
  1094.8                                         5.64.070
  1204                                           3.40.190
  1206                                           3.40.190
  1822.50 through 1822.57                        8.40.100
                                                  
                                                 
  ---------------------------------------------- --------------------

 

Code of Regulations

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  ------------ --------------

  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------
  State Cite                              Code Section
  Chapter 14, § 671                       7.04.010
  Title 14, Div. 7, Chapter 12            8.70.010
  Title 14, Div. 7, Chapter 12, Art. 12   8.70.100
  Title 14, § 17855(a)(4)                 8.70.010
  Title 14, § 17896.2(a)(4)               8.70.010
  Title 14, § 18982                       8.70.010
  Title 14, § 18982(a)(7)                 8.70.010
  Title 14, § 18982(a)(8)                 8.70.010
  Title 14, § 18982(a)(18)                8.70.010
  Title 14, § 18982(a)(55)                8.70.010
  Title 14, § 18982(a)(61)                8.70.010
  Title 14, § 18982(a)(73)                8.70.010
  Title 14, § 18982(a)(74)                8.70.010
  Title 14, § 18984.1                     8.70.010
  Title 14, § 18984.1(a)(1)(A)            8.70.010
  Title 14, § 18984.2(a)(1)(C)            8.70.010
  Title 14, § 18984.9(c)                  8.70.030
  Title 19                                14.20.030, 17.90.080
  Title 22, §§ 66261.3 et seq.            8.05.020
  22000 et seq.                           14.38.050
  Title 23, Div. 2, Chapter 2.7           8.70.010, 8.70.100
  Title 23, § 492.6(a)(3)(B)              8.70.100
  Title 23, § 492.6(a)(3)(C)              8.70.100
  Title 23, § 492.6(a)(3)(D)              8.70.100
  Title 23, § 492.6(a)(3)(G)              8.70.100
  Title 24                                14.38.020, 14.38.030, 17.65.060
  Title 24, Part 1                        14.14.010
  Title 24, Part 2                        14.12.010
  Title 24, Part 2.5                      14.13.010
  Title 24, Part 3                        14.16.010
  Title 24, Part 4                        14.26.010
  Title 24, Part 5                        14.18.010
  Title 24, Part 6                        14.28.010
  Title 24, Part 8                        14.24.010
  Title 24, Part 9                        14.20.010
  Title 24, Part 10                       14.23.010
  Title 24, Part 11                       8.70.090, 14.27.010
  Title 24, Part 12                       14.25.010
  Title 25                                17.20.060
                                           
                                          
  --------------------------------------- ---------------------------------

 

Corporations Code

 

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  14502        7.04.110
               
  ------------ --------------

 

Education Code

 

  --------------- --------------
  State Cite      Code Section
  48205           9.60.020
  48222           9.60.020
  48224           9.60.020
  49580 et seq.   8.70.050
                   
  --------------- --------------

 

Elections Code

 

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  10403        1.15.010
  10228        1.15.010
  13307        1.15.030
  13309        1.15.030
                
  ------------ --------------

 

Financial Code

 

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  21208        5.32.050
                
  ------------ --------------

 

Fish & Game Code

 

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  2116         7.04.010
  2118         7.04.010
               
  ------------ --------------

 

Food and Agricultural Code

 

  -------------------------- --------------
  State Cite                 Code Section
  Division 14                7.06.010
  Chapter 9 of Division 14   7.06.160
  17001 et seq.              7.04.095
                             
  -------------------------- --------------

 

Government Code

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  ------------ --------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------
  State Cite                                                         Code Section
  Title 1, Division 3.6, Part 3 (commencing with § 900)              3.20.010
  Title 1, Division 3.6, Part 3, Chapter 1                           2.08.040
  Title 1, Division 3.6, Part 3, Chapter 1 (commencing with § 900)   3.20.010
  Title 1, Division 3.6, Part 3, Chapter 2 (commencing with § 910)   3.20.010
  Title 4, Division 3, Part 3, Chapter 2                             2.08.040
  Title 5, Chapter 2.5 (commencing with § 53311)                     3.50.020
  Title 5, Division 1, Chapter 7 (commencing § 51200)                16.08.040
  Title 7, Division 2                                                16.04.020
  Title 8, Chapter 12 (commencing with § 76000)                      10.20.012
  16.5                                                               14.38.050
  Title 24                                                           17.65.060
  Division 1, Chapter 4, Article 2.5 (commencing with § 65864)       16.08.040
  900 et seq.                                                        3.20.010
  905                                                                3.20.010
  910                                                                3.20.030
  911.2                                                              3.60.110
  935                                                                3.60.110
  935(b)                                                             3.20.040, 3.60.140
  940 - 949                                                          3.20.050
  945.6                                                              3.20.040
  950 - 951                                                          3.20.050
  1090 et seq.                                                       2.20.020
  6062a                                                              3.55.050
  6063                                                               9.80.090
  6151.5 et seq.                                                     9.75.070
  6250 et seq.                                                       5.80.050, 7.80.120
  6700                                                               10.02.020
  6701                                                               10.02.020
  25845                                                              8.15.010
  34882                                                              1.15.010
  34900 - 34904                                                      2.04.060
  34903                                                              2.04.060
  34904                                                              1.15.010
  36516                                                              2.04.060
  36516(a)                                                           2.04.060
  36516(a)(4), (c)                                                   2.04.060
  36516(d)                                                           2.04.060
  36516.1                                                            2.04.060
  36516.5                                                            2.04.060
  36518                                                              2.08.020
  36523                                                              3.01.070
  36524                                                              3.01.070
  36900(a)                                                           5.60.460
  37208                                                              3.20.080
  38771                                                              9.80.030
  38773 et seq.                                                      9.45.070
  38773.1                                                            1.22.090
  38773.5                                                            1.22.100, 7.06.080
  38773.5(b)                                                         1.20.040
  38773.6                                                            9.45.090
  40500 - 40592 et seq.                                              3.10.320
  40802 - 40805                                                      2.08.040, 2.10.050
  40805.5                                                            2.08.040
  41000 - 41007                                                      2.10.050
  50022.2                                                            5.56.010, 14.22.010
  50022.9                                                            5.56.010
  50030                                                              5.40.150
  51243                                                              16.08.040
  51243.5                                                            16.08.040
  51245                                                              16.08.040
  51282                                                              16.08.040
  51501                                                              3.30.010
  53054 et seq.                                                      5.40.080 , 5.40.140
  53055                                                              5.40.140
  53055.1                                                            5.40.140
  53055.2                                                            5.40.140
  53056(b)                                                           5.40.140
  53066.3                                                            5.40.050
  53069.4                                                            1.20.060
  53069.5                                                            9.45.080
  53075.5(b)(3)                                                      5.48.020, 5.48.040
  53088 et seq.                                                      5.40.080, 5.40.140, 5.40.200
  53088.2I, J and K                                                  5.40.080
  53088.2(o)                                                         5.40.140
  53088.2(p)                                                         5.40.200
  53088.2(q)                                                         5.40.140
  53150 et seq.                                                      9.70.020
  53200 - 53210                                                      2.04.060
  53208.5                                                            2.04.060
  53601                                                              3.01.020
  53607                                                              3.01.010 
  53608                                                              3.01.010, 3.01.060
  53635                                                              3.01.020
  65100                                                              2.20.080
  65101                                                              17.200.170
  65301 et seq.                                                      17.200.080
  65450 et seq.                                                      17.200.200
  65583                                                              17.20.100
  65850.7                                                            10.40.030 - 10.40.050
  65852.2                                                            17.20.080
  65852.2(f)(3)                                                      17.20.080
  65852.3                                                            14.30.070
  65852.22                                                           17.20.080
  65852.26                                                           17.20.080
  65950.55                                                           14.38.070
  66015                                                              14.38.070
  66016                                                              14.38.070
  66412.6(a),(b)                                                     16.04.090
  66427.1                                                            16.08.010, 16.08.050, 17.20.070
  66427.1(a)                                                         16.04.040
  66427.4                                                            16.08.010
  66428                                                              16.12.010
  66452                                                              17.200.170
  66452.8                                                            17.20.070
  66452.9                                                            17.20.070
  66452.10                                                           16.04.040, 16.08.010, 16.08.040
  66456.1                                                            16.08.040
  66473.3                                                            16.08.020
  66474.2                                                            16.08.060, 16.16.040, 17.200.170
  66499.35                                                           16.40.010
  66499.52                                                           16.36.040
  68632                                                              5.82.070
  70372(b)                                                           10.16.220, 10.18.080, 10.20.040, 10.26.020
  76000(b)                                                           10.16.220, 10.18.080, 10.20.040
                                                                      
                                                                     
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------

 

Health and Safety Code

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  ------------ --------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  State Cite                                                   Code Section
  Division 8                                                   16.08.010
  Division 13, Part 2.1                                        17.20.060
  Division 20, Ch. 6.7 (being §§ 25280 - 25299.8)              8.10.030
  Division 20, Chapter 6.95 (being §§ 25500 through 25546.5)   8.10.020
  11000 et seq.                                                9.100.020, 9.100.110
  11018                                                        8.60.020
  11018.5                                                      17.80.080, 17.80.090, 17.80.100, 17.80.101, 17.80.110, 17.80.120
  11053-11058                                                  9.100.020
  11054                                                        5.60.050 , 5.60.110, 5.60.120, 5.60.130, 5.60.150, 5.60.430, 9.80.020
  11055                                                        5.60.050 , 5.60.110, 5.60.120, 5.60.130, 5.60.150, 5.60.430, 9.80.020
  11056                                                        5.60.050 , 5.60.110, 5.60.120, 5.60.130, 5.60.150, 5.60.430, 9.80.020
  11057                                                        5.60.050 , 5.60.110, 5.60.120, 5.60.130, 5.60.150, 5.60.430, 9.80.020
  11058                                                        5.60.050 , 5.60.110, 5.60.120, 5.60.130, 5.60.150, 5.60.430, 9.80.020
  11357.5                                                      9.100.020, 9.100.110
  11362.2                                                      8.60.010
  11362.5                                                      17.80.080, 17.80.090, 17.80.100, 17.80.101, 17.80.110, 17.80.120
  11375.5                                                      9.100.020, 9.100.110
  11401                                                        9.100.020, 9.100.110
  11570                                                        8.25.020
  12504                                                        9.65.015
  17951                                                        14.38.070
  17958.1                                                      17.20.080
  17985                                                        1.20.050
  18010                                                        10.22.040
  18214                                                        17.20.060
  18551                                                        14.30.070, 17.200.140
  19957.5                                                      2.26.010
  25110.02                                                     8.01.010
  25115                                                        8.01.010
  25117                                                        8.01.010, 9.80.020, 17.200.090
  25117.1                                                      17.200.090
  25515                                                        8.10.020
  50093                                                        16.08.050
  50105                                                        17.200.050
  113783                                                       8.70.010
  113789                                                       8.70.010
  113841                                                       8.70.010
  113842                                                       8.70.010
  114079                                                       8.70.050
  114960                                                       8.70.010
  117600                                                       8.70.010
                                                                
                                                               
  ------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Labor Code

 

  -------------- ---------------------
  State Cite     Code Section
  1720 et seq.   3.55.080
  1770 - 1782    3.55.080
  6404.5         5.80.090, 17.80.120
                  
  -------------- ---------------------

 

Penal Code

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  ------------ --------------

  ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  State Cite                                              Code Section
  148                                                     1.25.040
  186.22(a)                                               8.25.020
  266a                                                    5.64.040
  266b                                                    5.64.040
  266c                                                    5.64.040
  266(d)                                                  5.60.010
  266e                                                    5.64.040
  266(e)                                                  5.60.010
  266(f)                                                  5.60.010 , 5.60.150
  266g                                                    5.64.040
  266h                                                    5.64.040
  266(h)                                                  5.60.010
  266(i)                                                  5.60.010 , 5.60.050 , 5.60.110 , 5.60.120 , 5.60.130 , 5.60.150 , 5.60.430
  272                                                     9.60.030
  290                                                     5.48.050, 5.60.050, 5.60.110, 5.60.120, 5.60.130, 5.60.150, 5.60.430, 5.64.060
  311 - 313.4                                             5.64.060
  313                                                     9.50.010
  313(a)                                                  13.60.035
  313.1                                                   10.20.010
  313.1(e)                                                9.50.020
  314                                                     5.60.010
  315                                                     5.60.010 , 5.60.050, 5.60.110, 5.60.120, 5.60.130, 5.60.150, 5.60.430, 5.64.040, 5.64.060
  316                                                     5.60.010 , 5.60.050, 5.60.110, 5.60.120, 5.60.130, 5.60.150, 5.60.430, 5.64.040, 5.64.060
  317                                                     5.60.010
  318                                                     5.60.050, 5.60.110, 5.60.120, 5.60.130, 5.60.150, 5.60.430, 5.64.060
  365                                                     9.10.090
  372                                                     8.30.180
  403                                                     1.25.040
  415                                                     9.10.090
  424                                                     3.40.260
  594                                                     9.45.080, 9.45.090
  594 et seq.                                             9.45.090
  594.1(c)                                                9.45.060
  594.3                                                   9.45.080
  597.5(a)                                                7.06.020
  599aa                                                   7.06.020
  637.5                                                   5.40.080
  640                                                     9.45.080
  640.5                                                   9.45.080
  640.6                                                   9.45.080
  640.6(a)                                                9.45.090
  647(a)                                                  5.60.010 , 5.60.050 , 5.60.110, 5.60.120, 5.60.130, 5.60.150, 5.60.430, 5.64.040
  647(a) or (b)                                           5.60.050, 5.60.110, 5.60.120, 5.60.130, 5.60.150, 5.60.430
  647(b)                                                  5.64.040, 5.64.060, 5.60.110
  647(c)                                                  9.10.090
  647(D)                                                  5.64.040
  Title 3, Chapter 4.5 (commencing with § 830)            10.20.010
  832                                                     1.20.040
  836.5                                                   1.20.040, 7.04.110
  Title 3, Part 2, Chapter 5C (commencing with § 853.5)   1.20.040, 7.04.010
  853.6                                                   1.20.040
  853.6 et seq.                                           1.20.040
  1412                                                    9.80.060
  11225                                                   5.60.010
  Title 4, Part 4, Chapter 1 (commencing with § 13520)    2.32.010
  13522                                                   2.32.012
                                                           
                                                          
  ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Public Contract Code

 

  --------------- --------------
  State Cite      Code Section
  20162           3.10.110
  22000 et seq.   3.15.010
  22032 et seq.   3.15.010
  22034           3.15.020
  22036           3.15.030
                   
  --------------- --------------

 

Public Resources Code

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  ------------ --------------

  ---------------- --------------------
  State Cite       Code Section
  Div. 30          8.70.010
  20180(b)(8)(1)   3.55.010
  21000 et seq.    3.55.010
  40000 et seq.    8.05.010
  40141            8.70.010
  40191            8.70.010
  40195.1          8.70.010
  41821            8.02.070
  41952            8.01.101, 8.01.120
  42648            8.02.010
  42652.5          8.70.010
  49000 et seq.    8.01.010
                    
                   
  ---------------- --------------------

 

Public Utilities Code

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  ------------ --------------

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  230          16.12.010
  234(a)       5.40.150
  616          5.40.150
  2902         5.40.150
  7901         5.40.150
  7901.1       5.40.150
                
               
  ------------ --------------

 

Revenue and Taxation Code

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  ------------ --------------

  -------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------
  State Cite                                               Code Section
  Division 1, Part 9, Chapter 5 (commencing with § 5096)   3.35.110
  Division 2, Part 1                                       3.45.090 , 3.45.100
  Division 2, Part 1.5                                     3.45.040 , 3.45.090
  Division 2, Part 6.7                                     3.35.100
  Division 2, Part 6.7 (commencing with § 11901)           3.35.010
  6066                                                     5.12.010
  6203                                                     3.45.100
  6701                                                     3.45.100
  6702                                                     3.45.100
  6711                                                     3.45.100
  6715                                                     3.45.100
  6737                                                     3.45.100
  6797                                                     3.45.100
  6828                                                     3.45.100
  7280                                                     3.40.020
  11922                                                    3.35.050
  23701                                                    13.45.050
  23701(a)                                                 5.24.020
  23701(b)                                                 5.24.020
  23701(d)                                                 5.24.020, 5.24.060
  23701(e)                                                 5.24.020
  23701(f)                                                 5.24.020
  23701(g)                                                 5.24.020
  23701(1)                                                 5.24.020
                                                            
                                                           
  -------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------

 

Streets and Highways Code

 

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  2106         3.25.010
  2107         3.25.010
  2113         3.25.010
                
  ------------ --------------

 

Vehicle Code

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  ------------ --------------

  ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------
  State Cite                           Code Section
  Art. 2.5 (commencing with § 27200)   10.30.070, 10.30.080
  415                                  9.80.020
  627                                  10.24.040
  670                                  9.80.020
  4760                                 10.20.032
  4763                                 10.20.012
  5602                                 10.20.028
  13202.6                              9.45.090
  14602.6                              10.38.010
  21400                                13.40.060
  22357                                10.24.040
  22358                                10.24.040
  22511.5                              10.16.040
  22511.9                              10.16.040
  22651(h)                             10.38.010
  22651(k)                             10.38.010
  22651(o)                             10.38.010
  22651(p)                             10.38.010
  22655.5                              10.38.010
  22660                                8.15.010, 8.15.030
  22669                                8.15.010, 8.15.170
  22852                                9.15.030, 9.80.080, 10.30.040, 10.38.030
  23103                                9.70.040
  23103.5                              9.70.040
  23111                                9.45.090
  23112                                9.45.090
  23113(a)                             9.45.090
  23152                                9.70.040
  23152(a)                             10.38.040
  23152(b)                             10.38.040
  27150                                10.30.070, 10.30.090
  35780                                13.35.070
  35781                                13.35.020, 13.50.160
  39001                                10.32.030
  39002                                10.32.020
  42001.7                              9.45.090
                                        
                                       
  ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------

 

Water Code

 

  -------------------------------------- --------------
  State Cite                             Code Section
  Division 7 (§§ 13000 et seq.)          8.05.020
  Division 7 (commencing with § 13000)   16.08.040
                                         
  -------------------------------------- --------------

 

Welfare and Institutions Code

 

  ------------ --------------
  State Cite   Code Section
  729.8        9.45.090
  742.16       9.45.090
               
  ------------ --------------

 

REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES

  ---------- ------------- --------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Code Section
  ---------- ------------- --------------

  ---------- ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ord. No.   Date Passed   Code Section
  26         5-26-71       5.44.010 - 5.44.050
  57         8-25-72       5.08.010 - 5.08.050
  249        9-22-92       5.16.010 - 5.16.030, 5.16.050, 5.16.060 , 5.16.080 - 5.16.100 , 5.16.120, 5.16.140, 5.16.150 , 5.16.170 - 5.16.240
  258        11-10-92      5.72.010 - 5.72.030
  301        9-26-95       5.16.010 - 5.16.030 , 5.16.160 , 5.16.210
  332        5-27-97       5.64.020 - 5.64.110
  347        4-14-98       5.16.070 , 5.16.230 , 5.16.240
  349        6-9-98        5.16.110 , 5.16.160
  415        5-12-04       2.04.060
  425        2-23-05       14.36.010 - 14.36.050
  440        10-26-05      14.36.010 - 14.36.060
  461        5-9-07        3.01.010 - 3.01.070 , 3.05.010 , 3.10.010 - 3.10.320 , 3.15.010 - 3.15.040 , 3.20.010 - 3.20.110 , 3.25.010 - 3.25.030 , 3.30.010 , 3.35.010 - 3.35.110 , 3.40.010 - 3.40.290 , 3.45.010 - 3.45.100 , 3.50.010 , 3.50.020 , 3.55.010 - 3.55.080
  462        5-9-07        5.08.010 - 5.08.060 , 5.12.010 - 5.12.060 , 5.16.010 - 5.16.030, 5.16.050 - 5.16.120, 5.16.140 - 5.16.240 , 5.20.010 , 5.20.020 , 5.24.010 - 5.24.130 , 5.28.010 - 5.28.070 , 5.32.010 - 5.32.040 , 5.36.010 - 5.36.030 , 5.40.010 - 5.40.210 , 5.44.010 - 5.44.050 , 5.48.010 - 5.48.060 , 5.52.010 - 5.52.040 , 5.56.010 - 5.56.060 , 5.60.010 - 5.60.510 , 5.64.010 - 5.64.110 , 5.68.010 - 5.68.060 , 5.72.010 - 5.72.030 , 5.76.010 - 5.76.060
  469        9-12-07       2.04.060
  470        11-14-07      17.20.010 - 17.20.090, 17.22.010 - 17.22.100
  474        5-28-08       17.25.010 - 17.25.090 , 17.30.010 - 17.30.090, 17.65.010 - 17.65.110, 17.70.010 - 17.70.120, 17.80.010 - 17.80.030, 17.90.010 - 17.90.120
  475        5-28-08       17.130.060, 17.150.070
  478        8-27-08       13.10.190
  479        6-25-08       10.24.040
  480        3-11-09       17.22.010 - 17.22.100, 17.45.010 - 17.45.050
  484        1-28-09       10.34.010 - 10.34.060
  487        4-8-09        2.20.010 - 2.20.100
  488        4-8-09        2.22.010 - 2.22.100
  491        9-23-09       10.16.030 - 10.16.120, 10.16.140 - 10.16.200, 10.16.220, 10.18.020, 10.18.040-10.18.080, 10.20.040, 10.22.070, 10.26.020, 10.34.060
  492        11-24-09      2.04.060
  493        2-24-10       5.60.520
  494        4-14-10       9.65.010 - 9.65.055
  495        5-12-10       7.04.120
  496        5-12-10       17.80.040
  497        5-12-10       Title 17, Appendix A
  498        6-23-10       17.200.140
  499        5-26-10       8.01.010 - 8.01.110, 8.02.010 - 8.02.080
  500        9-8-10        1.20.060, 7.04.010, 7.04.030, 7.04.050 - 7.04.095, 7.04.110, 7.04.125, 7.04.135, 7.04.150, 7.04.160, 7.04.190, 7.06.070, 9.40.060
  501        10-27-10      14.12.010, 14.13, 14.14.010, 14.16.010, 14.18.010, 14.20.010, 14.23.010, 14.24.010, 14.25.010, 14.26.010, 14.27, 14.28.010, 14.29.010, 14.34.010
  502        4-27-11       17.10.080, 17.10.140, 17.80.060 - 17.80.070; Title 17, Appendix A
  506        10-12-11      16.04.070
  511        3-28-12       17.20.010, 17.20.020, 17.20.030, 17.20.040, 17.20.050; Title 17, Appendix A
  512        3-28-12       2.22.060
  514        7-25-12       9.100.010 - 9.100.120
  515        5-22-13       17.05.010 - 17.05.030, 17.10.010 - 17.10.140, 17.15.010 - 17.15.070, 17.20.010 - 17.20.090, 17.25.010 - 17.25.110, 17.30.010 - 17.30.090, 17.60.010 - 17.60.080, 17.65.010 - 17.65.110, 17.80.010 - 17.80.040, 17.80.060, 17.80.070, 17.95.010 - 17.95.080, 17.100.010 - 17.100.080; Title 17, Appendix A
  516        4-24-13       9.65.010 - 9.65.055
  518        8-28-13       Title 17, Appendix A
  519        11-13-13      14.12.010, 14.13.010, 14.14.010, 14.16.010, 14.18.010, 14.20.010, 14.23.010, 14.24.010, 14.25.010, 14.26.010, 14.27.010, 14.28.010, 14.29.010, 14.34.010
  520        10-9-13       Title 17, Appendix A
  521        10-23-13      7.04.010 - 7.04.200, 7.06.010 - 7.06.170
  526        6-11-14       3.60.080
  528        9-10-14       17.01.010 - 17.01.120 , 17.05.010 - 17.05.030 , 17.10.010 - 17.10.150 , 17.10.010 - 17.10.100 , 17.10.120 - 17.10.150 , 17.20.010 - 17.20.090 , 17.22.010 - 17.22.100 , 17.25.010 - 17.25.110 , 17.30.010 - 17.30.090 , 17.35.010 - 17.35.040 , 17.40.010 - 17.40.030 , 17.50.010 - 17.50.080 , 17.60.010 - 17.60.080 , 17.65.010 - 17.65.110 , 17.67.010 - 17.67.060 , 17.70.010 - 17.70.120 , 17.80.010 - 17.80.040, 17.80.060, 17.80.070 , 17.200.010 - 17.200.270 , Title 17, Appendix A
  532        12-10-14      Title 17, Appendix A
  533        3-11-15       9.35.010 - 9.35.130
  534        5-13-15       8.40.010 - 8.40.150
  535        5-27-15       17.20.010 - 17.20.110, 17.22.010 - 17.22.100, 17.200.010 - 17.200.270, Title 17, Appendix A
  536        10-28-15      8.40.010 - 8.40.150
  537        2-24-16       2.16.010, 9.35.040
  538        8-26-15       14.38.010 - 14.38.070
  539        11-23-15      17.80.080, Title 17, Appendix A
  542        9-9-15        2.20.080
  543        2-24-16       8.40.030, 8.40.070
  544        3-23-16       17.165.010 - 17.165.070
  545        5-25-16       17.80.080, 17.80.090
  548        10-12-16      17.80.100, 17.80.110
  549        8-24-16       17.65.010 - 17.65.110
  553        5-24-17       17.80.080, 17.80.090, 17.80.120
  554        12-14-16      14.12.010, 14.13.010, 14.14.010, 14.16.010, 14.18.010, 14.20.010, 14.23.010, 14.24.010, 14.25.010, 14.26.010, 14.27.010, 14.28.010, 14.29.010
  555        10-26-16      8.60.010 - 8.60.090
  556        12-14-16      17.80.080 - 17.80.110
  557-A      5-24-17       17.80.120
  558        12-14-16      17.80.080 - 17.80.110
  561        4-12-17       8.60.050
  564        6-28-17       17.80.080, 17.80.090, 17.80.100, 17.80.110
  566        4-26-17       14.36.050
  567        7-12-17       17.80.081
  568        5-10-17       1.20.050 - 1.20.070, 1.22.010 - 1.22.100, 7.04.200, 8.25.020, 8.25.060, 8.25.170, 8.30.140, 8.35.040, 9.45.090, 14.10.110
  APUA 5     6-28-17       8.01.101
  573        7-12-17       17.80.100, 17.80.101
  578        10-11-17      17.75.060, 17.165.001
  579        12-13-17      17.80.080
  580        9-27-17       2.20.020
  581        12-3-17       17.30.020, Title 17, Appendix A
  583        2-28-18       Title 17, Table 30-1; 17.65.070
  586        5-9-18        17.30.010, Table 30-1; Appendix A
  587        5-23-18       Appendix A
  588        5-23-18       17.80.080, 17.80.081, 17.80.090, 17.80.100, 17.80.101, 17.80.110, 17.80.120
  589        7-25-18       17.50.030
  594        12-12-18      3.60.010 - 3.60.160
  595        9-26-18       2.04.060
  599        5-8-19        9.65.020, 9.65.025, 9.65.030, 9.65.035, 9.65.040
  600        5-8-19        17.50.020, Title 17, Appendix A
  601        5-8-19        3.60.030
  602        6-12-19       17.80.080, 17.80.090, 17.80.100, 17.80.101, 17.80.110, 17.80.120
  603        7-10-19       2.16.010, 9.35.040
  605        8-28-19       9.65.030, 9.65.040, 9.65.055
  606        12-11-19      5.80.010 - 5.80.150
  608        12-14-19      14.12.010, 14.13.010, 14.14.010, 14.16.010, 14.18.010, 14.20.010, 14.23.010, 14.24.010, 14.25.010, 14.26.010, 14.27.010, 14.28.010, 14.29.010
  611        4-22-20       17.70.050, 17.70.115, 17.70.120
  614        7-8-20        10.40.010 - 10.40.060
  616        9-9-20        3.60.030, 3.60.090
  618        12-9-20       17.80.070, 17.80.071
  620-A      1-13-21       8.01.120
  621        1-18-22       8.70.010 - 8.70.130
  623        4-27-22       17.195.010 - 17.195.120
  626        3-23-22       2.04.060
  627        6-22-22       17.20.080
  630        5-25-22       10.24.040
  631        7-13-22       9.110.010 - 9.110.120
  632        7-13-22       5.82.010 - 5.82.070
  635        10-14-22      17.50.020, Title 17, Appendix A
  636        10-26-22      14.12.010, 14.13.010, 14.14.010, 14.16.010, 14.18.010, 14.20.010, 14.23.010, 14.24.010, 14.25.010, 14.26.010, 14.27.010, 14.28.010, 14.29.010
  638        4-12-23       5.84.010 - 5.84.070
  640        4-12-23       17.30.010, Table 30-1
  641        5-10-23       17.50.020, Title 17, Appendix A
  646        12-13-23      5.16.010 - 5.16.030, 5.16.050 - 5.16.120, 5.16.140 - 5.16.240
  649        3-13-24       9.65.030
  650        5-8-24        8.60.030, 17.80.120, 17.200.140
  651        5-22-24       3.10.270
  652        7-24-24       17.05.010, 17.46.010 - 17.46.020, 17.100.090
  653        12-11-24      5.04.010, 5.04.020, 5.04.025, 5.04.026, 5.04.027, 5.04.030, 5.04.040, 5.04.050, 5.04.060, 5.04.070, 5.04.080, 5.04.090, 5.04.100, 5.04.110, 5.04.120, 5.04.130, 5.04.140, 5.04.150, 5.04.160, 5.04.170, 5.04.180, 5.04.190, 5.04.200, 5.04.210
  654        10-23-24      17.50.020, Title 17, Appendix A
  655        4-9-25        2.04.010, 2.04.020
  656        5-14-25       2.04.060
  657        6-11-25       17.03.020
                            
                           
  ---------- ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

 
