TOWN CODE
OF
AKRON, COLORADO

Code current through:
Ord. 599, passed 11-15-2024

 

Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com

PREFACE

         This code of the Town of Akron, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 599, passed November 15, 2024.
Ordinances of the Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the
provisions of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or
inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town office in order to ascertain
whether any particular provision of the code has been amended,
superseded or repealed.

                     American Legal Publishing

                     Cincinnati, Ohio

ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION

Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated
into the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any
questions concerning the ordinances listed.

TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION

CHAPTER 1
AKRON MUNICIPAL CODE

SECTION:

1-1-1: Title

1-1-2: Acceptance

1-1-3: Amendments

1-1-4: Code Alterations

1-1-1: TITLE:

Upon adoption by the board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Akron. This
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the AKRON MUNICIPAL CODE
and is hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and shall
be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the town
as provided in section 1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the
number of any section contained herein shall be understood to refer to
the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter and title
heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as
to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in
any legal documents. (2016 Code)

1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:

This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative
tribunals of this state as the ordinances of the town of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2016 Code)

1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:

   A.   Amendments By Ordinance:

      1.   Any additions or amendments to this code shall be adopted as
ordinances as required by state law, and when passed in such form as to
indicate the intention to make the same a part thereof, shall be
incorporated into this code so that reference to it as the code of the
town of Akron, shall be understood as including such additions or
amendments. (1997 Code § 1.04.090)

      2.   Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title,
chapter and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and
this shall constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory
requirement pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any
part of this code. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall
be immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and the said ordinance
material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place in each
copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be properly
identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the town
code. (2016 Code)

   B.   Reference Applies To All Amendments: Whenever a reference is
made to this code as the "Akron municipal code" or to any portion
thereof, or to any ordinance of the town codified herein, the reference
shall apply to all amendments, corrections, and additions heretofore,
now or hereafter made. (1997 Code § 1.01.030)

1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:

It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said
code, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the town and shall be
returned to the office of the town clerk when directed so to do by order
of the town board of trustees. (2016 Code)

CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE

SECTION:

1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions

1-2-2: Effect Of Repeal; Court Proceedings

1-2-3: Effect Of Code On Past Actions And Obligations

1-2-4: Severability Clause

1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:

   A.   All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption
of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this
code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:

      1.   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for
the town, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or any
evidence of the town's indebtedness.

      2.   Any appropriation ordinance providing for the levy of taxes
or prescribing salaries for town officers.

      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.

      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special
rights to persons or corporations.

      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution
of a contract or the issuance of warrants, or accepting the beneficial
interest in any trust.

      6.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys
or other public places.

      7.   Improvement ordinances.

      8.   Bond ordinances.

      9.   Ordinances relating to elections.

      10.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real
estate by or from the town.

      11.   All special ordinances.

   B.   All such ordinances shall continue in full force and effect to
the same extent as if fully set out herein. (2016 Code)

1-2-2: EFFECT OF REPEAL; COURT PROCEEDINGS:

   A.   Reviving Prior Ordinances: The repeal of an ordinance shall not
repeal the repealing clause of an ordinance or revive any ordinance
which has been repealed thereby. (1997 Code § 1.04.120)

   B.   Effect Of New Ordinance: No new ordinance shall be construed or
held to repeal a former ordinance whether such former ordinance is
expressly repealed or not, as to any offense committed against such
former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising under the
former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense or
act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to
the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated
by any provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent
of the party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new
ordinance takes effect.

   C.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the
ordinance making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any
other ordinance.

   D.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall
be construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any
general ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all
general ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be
continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same provisions;
nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or
altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability
of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the town
under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the effective date
hereof. (2016 Code)

1-2-3: EFFECT OF CODE ON PAST ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS:

The adoption of this code does not affect prosecutions for ordinance
violations committed prior to the effective date of this code, does not
waive any fee or penalty due and unpaid on the effective date of this
code, and does not affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit
posted, filed or deposited pursuant to the requirements of any
ordinance. (1997 Code § 1.01.070)

1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:

   A.   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein, is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any
part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein. The board of trustees hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one
or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective.

   B.   It is further declared that if any provision or part of this
code, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, is held
invalid, the remainder of this code and the application thereof to other
persons shall not be affected thereby. (1997 Code § 1.04.100; amd. 2016
Code)

CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS

SECTION:

1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretations

1-3-2: General Definitions

1-3-3: Construction

1-3-4: References To Prior Code Or To Specific Ordinances

1-3-5: Acts By Agents

1-3-6: Title, Chapter And Section Headings

1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS:

   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order
that the true intent and meaning of the mayor and town board of trustees
may be fully carried out.

   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of
any provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety and
general welfare.

   C.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of
the town has been changed in the content of this code to "title",
"chapter", "section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for
organizational and clarification purposes only. Such change to town
ordinances is not meant to amend passage and effective dates of such
original ordinances.

   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring
the head of a department or some other town officer to do some act or
perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the
department or other officer to designate, delegate and authorize
subordinates to perform the required act or perform the duty unless the
terms of the provision or section specify otherwise.

   E.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be
construed to be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical
simplicity.

   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3)
or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority
to a majority of such persons or officers.

   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive and discretionary; the
word "shall" is mandatory.

   H.   Or; And: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if
the sense requires it.

   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language,
but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.

   J.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and
be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and
thing. Words used in the plural number may also include the singular
unless a contrary intention plainly appears.

   K.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or
employee is referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed
as if followed by the words "of the town of Akron".

   L.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the
future, past and present where applicable unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise. (2016 Code)

1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:

Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall
have such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes
such meaning repugnant thereto:

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OR TOWN BOARD: The board of trustees of the town of
Akron, Colorado.

CRS: Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended.

CODE: The municipal code of the town of Akron, Colorado.

COUNTY: Washington County, Colorado.

PERSON: Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of them.

STATE: The state of Colorado.

TOWN: The town of Akron, Colorado, or the area within the territorial
limits of the town over which the town has jurisdiction or control by
virtue of any constitutional or statutory provision. (1997 Code §
1.04.020; amd. 2016 Code)

1-3-3: CONSTRUCTION:

The provisions of the ordinances of the town, and all proceedings under
them are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to
promote justice. (1997 Code § 1.04.080)

1-3-4: REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE OR TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES:

   A.   Prior Code: References in town forms, documents and regulations
to the chapters and sections of the former town code shall be construed
to apply to the corresponding provisions contained within this code.
(1997 Code § 1.01.090)

   B.   Specific Ordinances: The provisions of this code shall not in
any manner of record which refer to, or are otherwise connected with
ordinances which are therein specifically designated by number or
otherwise and which are included within this code, but such reference
shall be construed to apply to the corresponding provisions contained
within this code. (1997 Code § 1.01.050)

1-3-5: ACTS BY AGENTS:

When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being such that it may
be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall
be construed to include such acts performed by an authorized agent.
(1997 Code § 1.04.050)

1-3-6: TITLE, CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS:

Title, chapter and section headings contained in this code shall not be
deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope,
meaning or intent of the provisions of any title, chapter or section in
this code. (1997 Code § 1.01.040)

CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY

SECTION:

1-4-1: General Penalty; Continuing Violations

1-4-2: Aiding And Abetting

1-4-3: Prohibited Acts Include Causing And Permitting

1-4-4: Application Of Provisions

1-4-5: Liability Of Officers

1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS 1 :

   A.   Penalty Imposed: Whenever in this Code or any other ordinance or
resolution of the Town or any rule or regulation promulgated under the
provisions of this Code any act is prohibited or declared to be unlawful
or an offense or a misdemeanor or the doing of any act is required or
the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, any person
who shall be convicted of the violation of any such provision of this
Code or other ordinance or resolution of the Town hereafter enacted or
of such rules or regulations shall be punished by a fine of not more
than two thousand six hundred fifty dollars ($2,650.00).

   B.   Each Day Separate Offense: Every day any violation of this Code
or any other ordinance or resolution of the Town or any rule or
regulation promulgated under the provisions of this Code occurs shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 546, 4-3-2017)

 

Notes

  ------------------------------ ------------------------------
  1                              1. CRS § 13-10-113.

  ------------------------------ ------------------------------

1-4-2: AIDING AND ABETTING:

Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspired to commit, or
aids or abets in the commission of any act declared herein to be in
violation of this Code or the ordinances of the Town, whether
individually, or in connection with one or more persons as a principal,
agent or accessory, shall be guilty of such offense, and every person
who fraudulently, forcibly or wilfully induces, causes, coerces,
requires, permits or directs another to violate any ordinance of the
Town is likewise guilty of such offense. (1997 Code § 1.12.010; amd.
2016 Code)

1-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING AND PERMITTING:

Whenever in this Code or the ordinances of the Town any act or omission
is made unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting,
aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing the fact of such act or
omission. (1997 Code § 1.04.060; amd. 2016 Code)

1-4-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:

   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter
shall be applicable to every section of this Code the same as though it
were a part of each and every separate section.

   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the
same offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or
sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to
proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same
person for the same offense.

   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the
omission to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision
of this Code and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared
for such breach, the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2016 Code)

1-4-5: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:

No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee
liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such
duty, unless the intention of the Town Board to impose such fine or
penalty on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly
expressed in the section creating the duty. (2016 Code)

CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES

SECTION:

1-5-1: Corporate Authority

1-5-2: Board Qualifications, Vacancies And Terms

1-5-3: Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem And Acting Mayor

1-5-4: Salaries

1-5-5: Meetings

1-5-6: Quorum

1-5-7: Order Of Business

1-5-8: Actions Of Board; Ordinance Adoption

1-5-9: Committees

1-5-10: Intergovernmental Contracts

1-5-1: CORPORATE AUTHORITY:

The corporate authority of the town shall be vested in a board of
trustees, consisting of one mayor and six (6) trustees, who shall be
registered electors who have resided within the limits of the town for a
period of at least twelve (12) consecutive months immediately preceding
the date of the election; provided, that in case of annexation, any
person who has resided within the annexed territory for the time
prescribed shall be deemed to have met the residence requirements of the
town. (1997 Code § 2.04.010; amd. 2016 Code)

1-5-2: BOARD QUALIFICATIONS, VACANCIES AND TERMS:

   A.   Authority: The board of trustees shall constitute the
legislative body of the town and shall have power and authority, except
as otherwise provided by statute, to exercise all power conferred upon
or possessed by the town, and shall have the power and authority to
adopt such laws, ordinances and resolutions as it shall deem proper in
the exercise thereof.

   B.   Qualifications: Each trustee shall be a resident of the town and
a qualified elector therein. If any trustee shall move from or become,
during the term of his office, a nonresident of the town, he shall be
deemed thereby to have vacated his office, upon the adoption by the
board of trustees of a resolution declaring such vacancy to exist.

   C.   Filling Vacancies: In case of death, resignation, vacation or
removal for cause, of any of the town officers during their term of
office, the board by a majority vote of all the members thereof, may
select and appoint from among the duly qualified electors of the town, a
suitable person to fill the vacancy, who shall hold the office until the
next biennial town election. (1997 Code § 2.04.050)

   D.   Terms: The mayor shall serve a two (2) year term. Six (6)
trustees shall serve four (4) year terms, with three (3) trustees
elected every two (2) years. (1997 Code § 2.04.070; amd. 2016 Code)

1-5-3: MAYOR, MAYOR PRO TEM AND ACTING MAYOR:

   A.   Duties Of Mayor:

      1.   The mayor shall preside over the meetings of the board of
trustees, and shall perform such duties as may be required of him by
statute or ordinance.

      2.   Insofar as required by statute, and for all ceremonial
purposes, the mayor shall be the executive head of the town. He shall be
the presiding officer of the board of trustees and shall vote when there
is a tie.

      3.   He shall execute and authenticate by his signature such
instruments as the trustees, or any statutes or ordinances, shall
require.

      4.   Except as may be required by statute, the mayor shall
exercise only such powers as the trustees shall confer upon him. (1997
Code § 2.04.020)

   B.   Mayor Pro Tem: At its first meeting following each biennial
election, the board shall choose one of the trustees as mayor pro tem
who, in the absence of the mayor from any meeting of the board or during
the mayor's absence from the town, or his inability to act, shall
perform the duties of mayor. (1997 Code § 2.04.030)

   C.   Acting Mayor: In the event of absence or disability of both the
mayor and mayor pro tem, the trustees may designate another of its
members to serve as acting mayor during such absence or disability.
(1997 Code § 2.04.040)

1-5-4: SALARIES:

The salaries of elected officials shall be as follows:

 

  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
  Mayor      $500.00 per annum, plus $25.00 for each regular meeting attended
  Trustees   $250.00 per annum, plus $25.00 for each regular meeting attended
  ---------- ------------------------------------------------------------------

 

(1997 Code § 2.04.060; amd. 2016 Code)

1-5-5: MEETINGS:

   A.   Regular Meetings: Unless otherwise changed by resolution, the
trustees shall hold regular meetings beginning at six o’clock (6:00)
P.M. on the first Monday of every month provided, however, that when the
day fixed for any regular meeting of the board falls upon a day
designated by law as a legal or national holiday, such meeting shall be
held at the same hour on the next succeeding day not a holiday. All
regular meetings of the board will be held in the boardroom or in such
other place as the board may by resolution designate.

   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the mayor,
or in his absence, by the mayor pro tem or the town administrator at
their discretion.

(1997 Code §§ 2.04.080 and 2.04.090; amd. Ord. 586, 6-5-2023; Ord. 596,
8-5-2024)

1-5-6: QUORUM:

No action shall be taken unless a quorum is present. A majority of the
trustees shall constitute a quorum. A lesser number may adjourn from
time to time and compel the attendance of absent members. (1997 Code §
2.04.100)

1-5-7: ORDER OF BUSINESS:

The order of business of a board meeting shall be as follows:

   A.   Call To Order: The mayor shall take the chair precisely at the
hour appointed for the meeting, and shall immediately call the board to
order. The mayor or temporary chairman shall preserve the order and
decorum, decide all questions of order and conduct the proceedings of
the meeting in accordance with the parliamentary rules contained in
"Robert's Rules Of Order" unless otherwise provided by ordinance.

   B.   Roll Call: Before proceeding with the business of the board, the
clerk or his deputy shall call the roll of the members, and the names of
those present shall be entered in the minutes.

   C.   Reading The Minutes: Unless a reading of the minutes of a board
meeting is requested by a member of the board, the minutes of the
preceding meeting, which have been furnished by the clerk to each
trustee, shall be considered approved, if correct, and errors rectified
if any exist. (1997 Code § 2.04.110)

   D.   Scheduled Appearances: The board shall consider officials and
others who have requested appearance before the board.

   E.   Public Invited To Be Heard: Petitions, remonstrances,
communications and comments or suggestions from citizens present shall
be heard by the board. All such remarks shall be addressed to the board
as a whole, and not to any member thereof. Such remarks shall be limited
to a reasonable time and such determination will be in the discretion of
the presiding officers. No person other than the individual speaking
shall enter into the discussion without the permission of the presiding
officer.

   F.   General Items Of Business: The board shall consider any business
related issues.

   G.   Reports By Officers: Town officials and/or committees shall
present such reports as may be required by the board.

   H.   Adjournment: The board may, by a majority vote of those present,
adjourn from time to time to a specific date and hour. A motion to
adjourn shall always be in order and decided without debate. (1997 Code
§ 2.04.110; amd. 2016 Code)

1-5-8: ACTIONS OF BOARD; ORDINANCE ADOPTION:

   A.   Ordinance, Resolution Or Motion Required; Roll Call Vote: Every
subject coming before the board for its action shall be submitted by
ordinance, resolution or motion. The clerk shall call the roll and the
vote thereon shall be taken by ayes and nays. (1997 Code § 2.04.120;
amd. 2016 Code)

   B.   Adoption Of Ordinances: No ordinance shall be passed finally on
the date it is introduced, except in cases of special emergency, for the
preservation of the public peace, health or safety, and then only by the
affirmative vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the members of the board. In
all other cases, an ordinance shall be introduced and read at one
regular meeting of the board, and if the ordinance is passed on first
reading, the ordinance shall be read by title only and again voted upon
at the next regular meeting of the board. If the ordinance receives the
required vote on its second reading, the same shall be duly adopted.
(1997 Code § 2.04.130)

   C.   Vote Required: The mayor shall not vote upon any question except
in the case of a tie vote, when he shall be allowed to cast a vote. All
ordinances, all resolutions or orders for the appropriation of money,
all resolutions or orders to enter into contract, and all appointments
of officers shall require for the passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the board. In all cases other than
this, a majority of the votes cast is sufficient for passage except in
cases of special emergency for the preservation of the public peace,
health or safety, and then only by affirmative vote of three-fourths
(3/4) of the members of the board. (1997 Code § 2.04.140)

   D.   Publication Of Ordinances: All ordinances, as soon as may be
possible after their passage, shall be recorded in a book kept for that
purpose, and authenticated by the signature of the mayor and clerk. All
ordinances of a general or permanent nature, and those imposing any
fine, penalty, or forfeiture, shall be published in the "Akron News
Reporter". Such ordinances shall not take effect until thirty (30) days
after such publication, except for ordinances calling for special
elections or necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health or safety which shall take effect in five (5) days. The
reasons making the ordinances necessary for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, health or safety shall be set forth in a separate
section. Codes may also be adopted by reference as provided by state
law. (1997 Code § 2.04.150)

1-5-9: COMMITTEES:

Any question pending before the board may be referred to the appropriate
committee, or to a special committee, for its consideration and report.
When a question has been referred to a committee, such committee shall
report thereon with its recommendation at the next meeting. (1997 Code §
2.04.160)

1-5-10: INTERGOVERNMENTAL CONTRACTS:

The board of trustees shall have the authority on behalf of the town to
enter into contractual arrangements with one or more other local
governments for the performance of any governmental service, activity or
undertaking which could be performed by each of the local governments.
Any such contract shall set forth fully the purposes, powers, rights,
obligations and the responsibilities, financial and otherwise, of the
contracting parties. Such contract may be approved by the board by
resolution or by ordinance. (1997 Code § 2.04.170)

CHAPTER 6
TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

SECTION:

1-6-1: Oath And Bond

1-6-2: Removal Of Officers

1-6-3: Salaries And Compensation

1-6-4: Public Works Director (Rep. by Ord. 593, 6-14-2024)

1-6-1: OATH AND BOND:

   A.   Oath: All officers elected or appointed in any capacity shall
take an oath to support the constitution of the United States and the
constitution of the state of Colorado.

   B.   Bond Premiums Paid By Town: The board of trustees may provide
that the payment of premiums on surety bonds of any officer of the town
shall be made by the town treasurer from funds so designated by the
board. (1997 Code § 2.08.040)

1-6-2: REMOVAL OF OFFICERS:

   A.   Elected Officials: By the concurrent vote of four (4) members of
the board of trustees, the mayor, or any member of the board, or any
elective officer of the town, may be removed from office. No such
removal shall be made without a charge in writing and an opportunity of
hearing being given, unless the officer against whom the charge is made
shall cease to reside within the limits of the town.

   B.   Appointed Officers Or Employees: Any officer or employee
appointed by the board of trustees may be removed from office or
suspended for a specific time, with or without pay, by a majority vote
of the board of trustees whenever such officer shall, after a hearing
before the board, be found guilty of a dereliction or violation of his
duty or conduct unbecoming an officer or incompetency. (1997 Code §
2.08.030)

1-6-3: SALARIES AND COMPENSATION:

The board of trustees shall fix the salaries and compensation of all
officers of the town. (1997 Code § 2.08.010)

1-6-4: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:

(Rep. by Ord. 593, 6-14-2024)

CHAPTER 7
SPECIFIC TOWN OFFICIALS

ARTICLE A. TOWN ADMINISTRATOR

SECTION:

1-7A-1: Appointment

1-7A-2: Functions And Duties

1-7A-3: Board Responsibility

1-7A-1: APPOINTMENT:

The board of trustees may appoint a town administrator within ninety
(90) days after any vacancy exists in such position. The town
administrator shall hold office at the pleasure of the majority of the
board. (1997 Code § 2.12.010)

1-7A-2: FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES:

The town administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the
town government. The functions and duties of the town administrator may,
at the option of the board, be combined with the duties of the town
clerk. (1997 Code § 2.12.020)

1-7A-3: BOARD RESPONSIBILITY:

Nothing in this article shall impair the responsibility of the board for
the overall operation of the town government as required by the laws of
the state of Colorado. (1997 Code § 2.12.030)

ARTICLE B. TOWN CLERK

SECTION:

1-7B-1: Appointment

1-7B-2: Oath And Bond

1-7B-3: Duties; Other Offices

1-7B-1: APPOINTMENT:

The board of trustees, at its first regular meeting after each biennial
election, shall appoint some qualified person as town clerk. In case a
vacancy should occur in the office of clerk, the board shall appoint a
clerk for the unexpired term. (1997 Code § 2.16.010)

1-7B-2: OATH AND BOND:

Before entering upon the duties of the office, the clerk shall take an
oath of office and furnish a surety bond in the amount of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his
duties as town clerk. (1997 Code § 2.16.020)

1-7B-3: DUTIES; OTHER OFFICES:

   A.   Duties: The town clerk shall perform the following duties:

      1.   He shall be the clerk of the board and shall attend all
meetings of the board and shall keep a permanent journal of its
proceedings. (1997 Code § 2.16.030)

      2.   He shall be the custodian of all of the town's records and
such records shall be open to inspection by the public at all reasonable
times and under reasonable regulations established by the town as
provided by Colorado Revised Statutes title 24, article 72. (1997 Code §
2.16.030; amd. 2016 Code)

      3.   He shall certify by his signature all ordinances and
resolutions enacted or passed by the board.

      4.   He shall provide and maintain in his office a supply of forms
for all petitions required to be filed for any purpose provided by the
board.

      5.   He or his assistant shall prepare and countersign all checks
issued by the town.

      6.   He shall be custodian of all bonds of all officers or
employees of the town.

      7.   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for
him by law or by the board of trustees.

   B.   Act As Town Treasurer: At the option of the town board, the
clerk may also be appointed town treasurer, and as such shall perform
all the duties of the office of town treasurer.

   C.   Position Combined With Town Administrator: The position of town
clerk may be combined with that of town administrator at the option of
the board. (1997 Code § 2.16.030)

ARTICLE C. TOWN TREASURER

SECTION:

1-7C-1: Appointment

1-7C-2: Oath And Bond

1-7C-3: Duties; Other Officer

1-7C-1: APPOINTMENT:

The board of trustees, at its first regular meeting after each biennial
election, shall appoint some qualified person as town treasurer. In case
a vacancy should occur in the office of treasurer, the board shall
appoint a treasurer for the unexpired term. (1997 Code § 2.20.010)

1-7C-2: OATH AND BOND:

Before entering upon the duties of the office, the treasurer shall take
an oath of office and furnish a surety bond in the amount of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00), to be approved by the board of trustees,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties as town
treasurer, and when he shall vacate such office, he will turn over and
deliver to his successor all monies, books, papers, property or things
belonging to the town and remaining in his charge as treasurer. (1997
Code § 2.20.020)

1-7C-3: DUTIES; OTHER OFFICER:

   A.   Duties: The town treasurer shall perform the following duties:

      1.   The treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the town
and give receipts therefor; shall keep his books and accounts in such
manner as may be prescribed by the board; shall keep a separate account
of each fund or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging
thereto; and shall report to the board at each regular monthly meeting
thereof, the state of the treasury at the date of such account, and the
balance of money in the treasury. He shall also accompany such statement
of accounts with a statement of all monies received in the treasury and
on what account, during the preceding month, together with all checks
redeemed and paid by him and such checks and their supporting vouchers
shall be delivered and filed in the clerk's office upon every day of
such statement. All books and accounts of the treasurer shall always be
subject to inspection of any member of the board.

      2.   He shall perform all other duties, keep all records, and make
all reports that are required by other provisions of this code or by the
laws of the state of Colorado. (1997 Code § 2.20.030; amd. 2016 Code)

   B.   Town Treasurer Same Person As Town Clerk: At the option of the
town board, the town treasurer may be the same person as the town clerk.
(1997 Code § 2.20.030)

ARTICLE D. TOWN ATTORNEY

SECTION:

1-7D-1: Appointment

1-7D-2: Duties

1-7D-1: APPOINTMENT:

The board of trustees, at its first regular meeting after each biennial
election, shall appoint some qualified attorney at law as the town
attorney and shall fix his compensation. In case a vacancy should occur
in the office of town attorney, the board shall appoint a town attorney
for the unexpired term. (1997 Code § 2.24.010)

1-7D-2: DUTIES:

The town attorney shall perform the following duties:

   A.   He shall act as legal advisor to, and be attorney and counsel
for, the board and shall be responsible solely to the board. He shall
advise any officer or department head of the town in matters relating to
his official duties when so requested by the board and shall file with
the clerk a copy of all written opinions given by him.

   B.   He shall prepare or review all ordinances, contracts, bonds and
other written instruments which are submitted to him by the board and
shall promptly give his opinion as to the legal consequences thereof.

   C.   He shall call to the attention of the board all matters of law,
and changes or developments therein, affecting the town.

   D.   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him
by the board. (1997 Code § 2.24.020; amd. 2016 Code)

CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS

SECTION:

1-8-1: Election Procedure

1-8-2: Write In Candidate Affidavit

1-8-3: Cancellation Of Election

1-8-1: ELECTION PROCEDURE:

Municipal elections shall be conducted pursuant to Colorado Revised
Statutes title 31. (1997 Code § 2.28.010; amd. 2016 Code)

1-8-2: WRITE IN CANDIDATE AFFIDAVIT:

No write in vote for any elected municipal official shall be counted
unless an affidavit of intent has been filed with the town clerk by the
person whose name is written in prior to sixty-four (64) days before the
day of the election indicating that such person desires the office and
is qualified to assume the duties of that office if elected. (Ord. 568,
6-1-2020)

1-8-3: CANCELLATION OF ELECTION:

If the only matter before the voters is the election of persons to
office, and if at the close of business on the sixty-fourth (64th) day
before the election, there are not more candidates than offices to be
filled at such election, including candidates filing affidavits of
intent as write in candidates, the clerk, if instructed by resolution of
the governing body either before or after such date, shall cancel the
election and by resolution declare the candidates elected. Notice of
such cancellation shall be posted at each polling place and in at least
one other public place. (Ord. 568, 6-1-2020)

ARTICLE A. RECALL ELECTIONS 1

SECTION:

1-8A-1: Recall Of Officials

1-8A-2: Petition Procedure

1-8A-3: Protest Procedure

1-8A-4: Insufficient Petition

1-8A-5: Sufficient Petition

1-8A-6: Resignation Of Officer

1-8A-7: Official Recall Ballot

1-8A-8: Result Of Election

1-8A-9: Nomination Of Candidates

1-8A-10: Recall After Six Months

1-8A-11: Second Petition

 

Notes

  ------------------------------ ------------------------------
  1                              1. CRS § 31-4-502.

  ------------------------------ ------------------------------

1-8A-1: RECALL OF OFFICIALS:

Every elected officer of the town may be recalled from office at any
time by the electors entitled to vote for a successor of such incumbent,
through the procedure provided for in this chapter. (1997 Code
§2.32.010; amd. 2016 Code)

1-8A-2: PETITION PROCEDURE:

The procedure to effect the recall of an elected officer of the town
shall be as follows: (1997 Code §2.32.020; amd. 2016 Code)

   A.   A petition shall be signed by electors entitled to vote for a
successor of the incumbent sought to be recalled, equal in number to
twenty five percent (25%) of all ballots cast at the last preceding town
election demanding an election of the successor to the officer named in
the petition.

   B.   The petition shall be filed with the town clerk.

   C.   Such petition shall contain a general statement, in not more
than two hundred (200) words of the grounds on which recall is sought.

   D.   Any recall petition may be circulated and signed in sections,
provided each section shall contain a full and accurate copy of the
title and text of the petition.

   E.   Each signer must add his signature, the date of signing, and his
place of residence, giving his street number, if any.

   F.   The person circulating such sheet must make and subscribe an
oath on the sheet that the signatures thereon are genuine, and a false
oath, wilfully so made and subscribed by such person, shall be perjury
and punished as such. (1997 Code §2.32.020)

1-8A-3: PROTEST PROCEDURE:

All petitions shall be deemed and held to be sufficient if they appear
to be signed by the requisite number of signers who shall be deemed and
held to be qualified electors, unless a protest in writing under oath
shall be filed with the town clerk by a qualified elector.

   A.   Such protest must be filed within fifteen (15) days after the
petition is filed.

   B.   The protest must set forth specifically the grounds of such
protest.

   C.   The clerk shall forthwith mail a copy of such protest to the
persons named in such petition as representing the signers thereof,
together with a notice fixing a time for hearing such protest not less
than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days after such notice is mailed.

   D.   All hearings shall be held before the clerk and all testimony
shall be under oath.

   E.   Such hearings shall be summary and not subject to delay and must
be concluded within thirty (30) days after such petition is filed. (1997
Code §2.32.030)

   F.   The result of the hearing shall be certified to the persons
representing the signers of such petition and the officer sought to be
recalled. (1997 Code §2.32.030; amd. 2016 Code)

   G.   The finding as to the sufficiency of the petition may be
reviewed by any state court of general jurisdiction in the county. (1997
Code §2.32.030)

1-8A-4: INSUFFICIENT PETITION:

In case the petition is not sufficient, it may be withdrawn by the
person or a majority of the persons representing the signers of such
petition, and, within fifteen (15) days thereafter, may be amended and
refiled as an original petition. (1997 Code §2.32.040)

1-8A-5: SUFFICIENT PETITION:

When such petition is sufficient, the clerk shall forthwith submit the
petition, together with a certificate of its sufficiency, to the board
of trustees. The board shall thereupon order and fix the date for
holding an election, not less than thirty (30) days nor more than ninety
(90) days from the date of the submission of said petition. If a town
election is to be held within ninety (90) days after the date of
submission of the petition, the recall election shall be held as a part
of the election. (1997 Code §2.32.050)

1-8A-6: RESIGNATION OF OFFICER:

If such officer shall offer his resignation, it shall be accepted, and
the vacancy caused by such resignation, or from any other cause, shall
be filled as provided by law; but the person appointed to fill such
vacancy shall hold his office only until the person elected at the
recall election shall qualify. If such officer shall not resign within
five (5) days after the sufficiency of the recall petition shall have
been sustained, the board of trustees shall make, or cause to be made,
publication of notice for holding of such election, and the same shall
be conducted, returned, and the result thereof declared in all respects
as in the case of other town elections. (1997 Code §2.32.060)

1-8A-7: OFFICIAL RECALL BALLOT:

   A.   On the official ballot at such elections shall be printed in not
more than two hundred (200) words, the reasons set forth in the petition
for demanding the officer's recall, and in not more than three hundred
(300) words there shall also be printed, if desired by him, the
officer's justification of his course in office. If such officer shall
resign at any time subsequent to filing of the official ballot, the
recall election shall be called notwithstanding such resignation.

   B.   There shall be printed on the official ballot, as to every
officer whose recall is to be voted on, the words, "Shall (name of
person against whom recall petition is filed) be recalled from office of
(title of office)?" Following such question shall be the words "Yes" and
"No" on separate lines with a blank space at the right of each, in which
the voter shall indicate, by marking a cross (X), his vote for or
against such recall.

   C.   On such ballots, under each question, there shall also be
reprinted the names of those persons who have been nominated as
candidates to succeed the person sought to be recalled; but no vote cast
shall be counted for any candidate for such office, unless the voter
also voted for or against the recall of such person thought to be
recalled from office. The name of the person against whom the petition
is filed shall not appear on the ballot as a candidate for the office.
(1997 Code §2.32.070)

1-8A-8: RESULT OF ELECTION:

   A.   If a majority of those voting on the question of the recall of
any incumbent from office shall vote "No", the incumbent shall continue
in office. If a majority shall vote "Yes", such incumbent shall
thereupon be deemed removed from office upon the qualification of his
successor.

   B.   If the vote had in such recall election shall recall the
officer, then the candidate who has received the highest number of votes
for the office thereby vacated shall be declared elected for the
remainder of the term, and a certificate of election shall be forthwith
issued to him by the canvassing board. In case the persons who received
the highest number of votes shall fail to qualify within fifteen (15)
days after the issuance of a certificate of election, the office shall
be deemed vacant, and shall be filled according to law. (1997 Code
§2.32.080)

1-8A-9: NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES:

Candidates for the office may be nominated by petition, as now provided
by law, which petition shall be filed with the town clerk not less than
twenty (20) days before the recall election. (1997 Code §2.32.090; amd.
2016 Code)

1-8A-10: RECALL AFTER SIX MONTHS:

No recall petition shall be circulated or signed against any officer
until he has actually held his office for at least six (6) months,
unless he holds his office by virtue of appointment to fill a vacancy.
(1997 Code §2.32.100)

1-8A-11: SECOND PETITION:

After one recall petition and election, no further petition shall be
filed against the same officer during the term for which he was elected,
unless the petitioners signing the petition shall equal fifty percent
(50%) of the ballots cast at the last preceding town election. (1997
Code §2.32.110)

CHAPTER 9
CODE OF ETHICS

SECTION:

1-9-1: Purpose

1-9-2: Definitions

1-9-3: Applicability

1-9-4: Restrictions Generally

1-9-5: Conflict Of Interest Disclosure; Procedure

1-9-6: Guidelines; Potential Conflicts Of Interest

1-9-7: Violations; Penalties

1-9-8: Guideline Violations

1-9-1: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to promote public confidence in the town
government and to provide guidance to the trustees of the town board and
members of the boards, commissions and other authorities appointed by
the town board and town administrator concerning real or apparent
conflicts of interest. (1997 Code §2.52.010; amd. 2016 Code)

1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:

For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined and
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section unless it is
apparent from the context that a different meaning is intended:

BOARD: The following boards, commissions or other bodies or authorities,
and any other boards appointed by law or ordinance of the town:

   A.   Board of trustees;

   B.   Board of adjustment;

   C.   Board of appeals;

   D.   Airport development committee;

   E.   Akron library board;

   F.   Akron volunteer firemen's pension board;

   G.   Town of Akron housing authority;

   H.   Senior and community center.

BOARD MEMBER: A member of any board appointed by the town administrator
or town board of trustees whether under charter, ordinance or state law,
including regular and alternate members; such does not include or cover
any compensated full time or part time town employee unless such person
is also a board member.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST: Any personal or property interest, or any other
kind of pecuniary interest or any other private interest held by an
individual trustee or board member which may conflict or interfere with
or otherwise influence, or which may reasonably be perceived by the
public as influencing the conduct of public duties.

TRUSTEE: A member of the board of trustees. (1997 Code §2.52.020; amd.
2016 Code)

1-9-3: APPLICABILITY:

Unless otherwise required by law, the provisions of this chapter will be
applicable law governing conflicts of interest within the town. (1997
Code §2.52.030)

1-9-4: RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY:

The following restrictions shall apply to all town trustees and all
board members:

   A.   No town trustee or board member may use any information obtained
by virtue of this public position in furtherance of any personal or
pecuniary interest or to further the personal or pecuniary interest of
any other person. Confidential or privileged information shall not be
disclosed except as provided by law.

   B.   No town trustee or board member may take any final action or
vote to render any final decision or determination on any particular
item or matter within the province of the board where:

      1.   The individual member has a conflict of interest, other than
the common public interest, with regard to that particular item or
matter before the board; or

      2.   Any member of his family may personally benefit from the
final action, decision or determination regarding a particular item or
matter before the board.

   C.   No town trustee or board member will be a party, by himself or
through a firm appearing on behalf of such a party, in a lawsuit in
state court wherein the town is also a party without the consent of the
town board being first requested and obtained. (1997 Code §2.52.040;
amd. 2016 Code)

1-9-5: CONFLICT OF INTEREST DISCLOSURE; PROCEDURE:

   A.   Disclosure Required: In the event that any town trustee or board
member has any conflict of interest of which he is aware, the town
trustee or board member shall declare such interest to the town board of
trustees or board of which he is a member. In the event that any town
trustee or board member is aware that he could potentially be construed
as having a conflict of interest, the town trustee or board member shall
disclose such potential conflict of interest to the town trustees or
board of which he is a member.

   B.   Conflict Established; Taking Action: If any town trustee or
board member fails to declare or disclose such interest, or where such
person discloses a potential conflict of interest, the remaining members
of the board shall establish by a majority vote whether said interest
does in fact constitute a conflict of interest. When such conflict of
interest is declared or established, the remaining trustees or board
members shall take any action they deem to be in the best interest of
the town.

   C.   Removal From Board During Consideration: When the conflict of
interest is declared or established as provided for above, the town
trustee or board member with such an interest shall remove himself from
the town trustees or board before the matter is being considered. After
the final decision is made by the town trustees or board with regard to
the particular matter upon which the town trustee or board member has
such an interest, he may return and resume his duties as a member of the
town trustees or board. (1997 Code §2.52.050; amd. 2016 Code)

1-9-6: GUIDELINES; POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:

All town trustees and board members shall be guided by the following
general directives in dealing with potential conflicts of interest:

   A.   All town trustees and board members should avoid any conflicts
of interest or appearance of conflicts of interest.

   B.   The town board and town administrator shall thoroughly examine
the background of all applicants for real or potential conflicts of
interest, and the appearance thereof, prior to appointing any board
member.

   C.   All town trustees and board members should avoid the receipt of
any compensation, gift, payment of expense, reward, gratuity or any item
of value tendered by a person where such a person has an interest in
some particular matter pending before the town trustees or board.

   D.   A town trustee or board member may be a member of a firm which
represents another person before the town board or another board;
except, such circumstances shall be conclusively deemed to be a conflict
of interest for such town trustee or board member.

   E.   A town trustee or board member may appear before the town board
or any other board urging an argument concerning general town issues and
policies. (1997 Code §2.52.060; amd. 2016 Code)

1-9-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:

Any town trustee or board member who violates any of the provisions of
sections 1-9-4 and 1-9-5 of this chapter shall be subject to the
following penalties:

   A.   In all cases, the determination of the town board as to whether
there has been a violation shall be final.

   B.   In the case of a town board member, if a violation is
established to the satisfaction of a majority of the town board, such
violation shall be grounds for an official reprimand by the town board.

   C.   In the case of a board member, if a violation is established to
the satisfaction of a majority of the town board, such violation shall
be grounds for an official reprimand by the town board and grounds for
termination of such person's appointment to any board of which he is a
member. If the town board votes to terminate the appointment of a board
member upon such grounds, the town board may appoint another person to
fulfill the term of the individual removed from office. (1997 Code
§2.52.070; amd. 2016 Code)

1-9-8: GUIDELINE VIOLATIONS:

Any apparent violation of any of the provisions of section 1-9-6 of this
chapter may be referred to the town board for investigation and
discussion by any town official, board or citizen of the town. If, upon
investigation and discussion, the town board finds that a violation of
the guidelines contained in section 1-9-6 of this chapter has occurred,
the town board may caution or reprimand the town board member, or board
member responsible therefor or take such other action as it deems to be
in the best interests of the town. (1997 Code §2.52.080; amd. 2016 Code)

CHAPTER 10
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY

SECTION:

1-10-1: Purpose

1-10-2: Definitions

1-10-3: Procedure For Disposition Of Property

1-10-4: Sale Of Unclaimed Property

1-10-1: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the administration and
disposition of unclaimed property which is in the possession of, or
under the control of, the town. (1997 Code § 3.16.010)

1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:

Unless otherwise required by context or use, words and terms shall be
defined as follows:

MUNICIPALITY: The town of Akron, Colorado.

OWNER: A person or entity, including a corporation, partnership,
association, governmental entity other than the municipality, or a duly
authorized legal representative or successor in interest of same, which
owns unclaimed property held by the municipality.

TOWN ADMINISTRATOR: The town administrator or the town clerk of the town
of Akron or designee thereof.

UNCLAIMED PROPERTY: Any tangible or intangible property, including any
income or increment derived therefrom, less any lawful charges, that is
held by, or is under the control of, the town, and which has not been
claimed by its owner for a period of more than one year, if it is
tangible personal property, and three (3) years, if it is intangible
personal property, after it became payable or distributable. (1997 Code
§ 3.16.020)

1-10-3: PROCEDURE FOR DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY:

   A.   Value More Than Fifty Dollars: Prior to disposition of any
unclaimed property having an estimated value of fifty dollars ($50.00)
or more, the town administrator shall send a written notice by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address, if any, of an
owner of unclaimed property. The last known address of the owner shall
be the last address of the owner shown by the records of the municipal
department or agency holding the property. The notice shall include a
description of the property, the amount or estimated value of the
property and, when available, the purpose for which the property was
deposited or otherwise held. The notice shall also state that, if the
owner fails to provide the town administrator with a written claim for
return of the property within sixty (60) days of the date of the notice,
the property shall become the sole property of the municipality and any
claim of the owner to such property shall be deemed forfeited.

   B.   Value Less Than Fifty Dollars: Prior to disposition of any
unclaimed property having an estimated value of less than fifty dollars
($50.00), or having no last known address of the owner, the town
administrator shall cause a notice to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality. The notice shall include a
description of the property, the owner of the property, the amount or
estimated value of the property and, when available, the purpose for
which the property was deposited or otherwise held. The notice shall
state where the owner may make inquiry of or claim the property. The
notice shall also state that, if the owner shall fail to provide the
town administrator with a written claim for the return of the property
within sixty (60) days of the date of the publication of the notice, the
property shall become the sole property of the municipality and any
claim of the owner to such property shall be deemed forfeited.

   C.   No Written Claim: If the town administrator receives no written
claim within the above described sixty (60) day claim period, the
property shall become the sole property of the municipality, and any
claim of the owner to such property shall be deemed forfeited.

   D.   Written Claim: If the town administrator receives a written
claim within the above described sixty (60) day claim period, the town
administrator shall evaluate the claim and give written notice to the
claimant within ninety (90) days thereof that the claim has been
accepted or denied in whole or in part. The town administrator may
investigate the validity of the claim and may request further supporting
documentation of the claimant prior to disbursing or refusing to
disburse the property.

   E.   More Than One Claimant: In the event that there is more than one
claimant for the same property, the town administrator may, in the town
administrator's sole discretion, resolve the claims or may resolve such
claims by depositing the disputed property with the registry of the
district court in an interpleader action.

   F.   Denial Of Claims: In the event that all claims filed are denied,
the property shall become the sole property of the municipality and any
claim of the owner of such property shall be deemed forfeited.

   G.   Legal Action Challenging Town Decision: Any legal action filed
challenging a decision of the town administrator shall be filed pursuant
to rule 106 of Colorado rules of civil procedure within thirty (30) days
of such decision or shall be forever barred. If any legal action is
timely filed, the property shall be disbursed by the town administrator
pursuant to the order of the court having jurisdiction over such claim.

   H.   Establish And Administer Procedures: The town administrator is
authorized to establish and administer procedures for the administration
and disposition of unclaimed property consistent with this chapter,
including compliance requirements for other municipal officers and
employees in the identification and disposition of such property. (1997
Code § 3.16.030)

1-10-4: SALE OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:

The disposition of any unclaimed property shall be determined by the
town administrator but shall be in a competitive manner when possible
and in a manner which does not conflict with any Colorado statute. (1997
Code § 3.16.040)

TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION

SECTION:

2-1-1: Commission Created

2-1-2: Membership; Terms

2-1-3: Qualifications; Compensation

2-1-4: Organization And Rules

2-1-5: Staff And Finances

2-1-6: Powers

2-1-7: Purpose In View

2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED:

Pursuant to the authority conferred by Colorado Revised Statutes
sections 31-23-201 through 31-23-213, there is created a planning
commission and a zoning commission for the town. The members of the
planning commission shall also serve, and are appointed as, a zoning
commission. (1997 Code § 2.48.010)

2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:

   A.   Members: The Town Planning Commission shall consist of five (5)
members as follows: the mayor, a member of the board of trustees, and
three (3) qualified persons appointed by the board or trustees.

   B.   Terms: The term of each appointed member shall be six (6) years
or until his successor takes office, except that the respective terms of
the members first appointed shall be as follows: one member for a term
of two (2) years, one member for a term of four (4) years and one member
for a term of six (6) years. The respective terms of the members first
appointed shall be fixed and designated by the board at the time of
appointment. (1997 Code § 2.48.020; Ord. 587, 5-2-2023)

2-1-3: QUALIFICATIONS; COMPENSATION:

   A.   Qualifications: All members of the planning commission and
zoning commission shall be bona fide residents in the town and if any
member ceases to reside in the town, his membership shall immediately
terminate.

   B.   Compensation: All members of the commissions shall serve as such
without compensation and the appointed members shall hold no other
municipal office, except that one such appointed member may be a member
of the zoning board of adjustment. (1997 Code § 2.48.030)

2-1-4: ORGANIZATION AND RULES:

Each commission shall elect its chairman from among the appointed
members and create and fill such other of its offices as it may
determine. The term of the chairman shall be one year, with eligibility
for reelection. Each commission shall hold at least one regular meeting
in each month and such meetings may be held consecutively on the same
date. Each commission shall adopt rules for transaction of business and
shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and
determinations, which record shall be a public record. (1997 Code §
2.48.040)

2-1-5: STAFF AND FINANCES:

   A.   Employees And Consultants: Each commission, jointly or
severally, may appoint such employees as it may deem necessary for its
work, whose appointment, promotion, demotion and removal shall be
subject to the same provisions of law as govern other corresponding
civil employees or the town. Each commission may also, with the consent
of the board, contract with the town planners, engineers and architects
and other consultants for such services as it may require.

   B.   Expenditures: The expenditures of the commission, exclusive of
gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose of the
board which shall provide the funds, equipment and accommodations
necessary for the commission's work. (1997 Code § 2.48.050)

2-1-6: POWERS:

Each commission shall have all of the powers and perform each and all of
the duties specified by Colorado Revised Statutes sections 31-23-201
through 31-23-213, together with any other duties or authority which may
hereafter be conferred upon them by the laws of the state of Colorado.
The performance of such duties and the exercise of such authority is to
be subject to each and all of the limitations expressed in such
legislative enactment or enactments. (1997 Code § 2.48.060)

2-1-7: PURPOSE IN VIEW:

   A.   Planning Commission: In the preparation of a master plan, the
planning commission shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and
studies of present conditions and future growth of the town with due
regard to its relations to neighboring territory. The plan shall be made
with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated,
adjusted and harmonious development of the town and its environs, which
will, in accordance with present and future needs, best promote health,
safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare, as
well as efficiency and economy in the process of development; including,
among other things, adequate provision for light and air, the promotion
of healthful and convenient distribution of population, the promotion of
good civic design and arrangement, wise and efficient expenditure of
public funds, and the adequate provision of public utilities and other
public requirements. (1997 Code § 2.48.070)

   B.   Zoning Commission: The zoning commission shall prepare its
regulations in accordance with a comprehensive plan and designed to
lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic and
other dangers; to promote health and general welfare; to provide
adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid
undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provision
of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public
requirements. Such regulations shall be made with reasonable
consideration, among other things, as to the character of the district
and its particular suitability for particular uses, and with a view to
conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate
use of land throughout the town. (1997 Code § 2.48.080)

TITLE 3
FINANCE AND TAXATION

CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

SECTION:

3-1-1: Fiscal Year Same As Calendar Year

3-1-2: Annual Budget

3-1-3: Rate Of Tax Levy

3-1-4: Annual Appropriation

3-1-5: Publication Of Financial Statements

3-1-6: Deposits; Investments

3-1-7: Annual Audit

3-1-1: FISCAL YEAR SAME AS CALENDAR YEAR:

The fiscal year of the town shall commence on January 1 and end on
December 31 of each year. (1997 Code § 3.04.010)

3-1-2: ANNUAL BUDGET:

Not later than October 15 of each year, the budget committee or other
duly authorized persons designated by the board, shall submit to the
board the itemized annual budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget
as approved by the board shall be adopted and administered in accordance
with the provisions of the local government budget law of Colorado.
(1997 Code § 3.04.020)

3-1-3: RATE OF TAX LEVY:

The board of trustees shall by resolution fix the rate of tax to be
levied upon all the taxable property within the town for municipal
purposes and, through the town clerk, shall officially certify the levy
to the county commissioners of Washington County prior to December 15 of
each year. (1997 Code § 3.04.030)

3-1-4: ANNUAL APPROPRIATION:

The board of trustees shall pass a resolution within the last quarter of
each fiscal year, to be termed the annual appropriation resolution, for
the next fiscal year. In such resolution, the board shall appropriate
such sums of money as are necessary to cover the items in its budget and
to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the town specifying
the objects and purposes for which such appropriations are made and the
amount appropriated for each object or purpose. The total amount
appropriated shall not exceed the probable amount of revenue that will
be collected during the fiscal year. (1997 Code § 3.04.040; amd. 2016
Code)

3-1-5: PUBLICATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:

The board of trustees shall, within twenty (20) days after the
adjournment of each regular or special meeting, publish such of its
proceedings as relate to the payment of bills, stating for what the same
are allowed, the name of the person to whom allowed and to whom paid.
(1997 Code § 3.04.050; amd. 2016 Code)

3-1-6: DEPOSITS; INVESTMENTS:

   A.   Deposits: The town treasurer shall deposit all of the funds and
monies which come into his possession by virtue of his office as town
treasurer in one or more responsible banks located in the state of
Colorado which have been designated by written resolution of the town
board.

   B.   Investments: The town board may also authorize the town
treasurer, by written resolution, to invest all or any part of such
funds in securities which are authorized for such investment by state
law. (1997 Code § 3.04.060)

3-1-7: ANNUAL AUDIT:

The board of trustees shall select a qualified person as auditor and
cause to be made an annual audit of the financial affairs and
transactions of the town in accordance with the requirements of state
law. (1997 Code § 3.04.070)

CHAPTER 2
SALES AND USE TAX

SECTION:

3-2-1: Purpose

3-2-2: Definitions

3-2-3: Vendor's Fee

3-2-4: General Provisions And Exemptions From Taxation

3-2-5: Schedules Of Sales Tax

3-2-6: Schedules Of Use Tax

3-2-7: Election And Amendments

3-2-8: Penalty

3-2-9: Effective Date

3-2-1: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to impose an additional sales tax on the
sale of tangible property at retail and the furnishing of services as
provided, in Colorado Revised Statutes section 29-2-105, subsection
(1)(d), upon every retailer in the town. (1997 Code § 3.08.010)

3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:

For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions of words herein
contained shall be defined in Colorado Revised Statutes section
39-26-102, and these definitions are incorporated herein by this
chapter. (1997 Code § 3.08.020)

3-2-3: VENDOR'S FEE:

The vendor (retailer) shall be entitled as collection agent for the town
to withhold a collection fee in the amount of three and one-third
percent (31/3%) from the total amount remitted by vendor to the town
each month. If any vendor is delinquent in remitting the tax, other than
in unusual circumstances shown to the satisfaction of the executive
director, the vendor shall not be allowed to retain any amounts to cover
his expense in collecting and remitting the tax and an amount equivalent
to the full three and one-third percent (31/3%) shall be remitted to the
executive director by any such delinquent vendor. (1997 Code § 3.08.030)

3-2-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND EXEMPTIONS FROM TAXATION:

   A.   Collection, Administration And Enforcement: For the purpose of
collection, administration and enforcement of this chapter by the
Colorado department of revenue, the provisions of Colorado Revised
Statutes title 39, article 26, part 7, as amended, shall be deemed
applicable and incorporated into this chapter. (Ord. 492, 3-2-2009; amd.
2016 Code)

   B.   Amount Subject To Tax, Exclusion: The amount subject to tax
under this chapter shall not include the state sales and use tax imposed
by Colorado Revised Statutes title 39, article 26.

   C.   Retail Sales At Place Of Business: For the purpose of this
chapter, all retail sales shall be considered consummated at the place
of business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold
is delivered by the retailer or his agent to a destination outside the
town or to a common carrier for delivery to a destination outside the
limits of the town.

   D.   Gross Receipts: The gross receipts from sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax imposed by Colorado Revised Statutes title 39, article 26
regardless of the places to which delivery is made.

   E.   Determination Of Place Of Business: In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the town, or more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated
for the purpose of this sales tax shall be determined by the provisions
of Colorado Revised Statutes title 39, article 26, and by the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Colorado department of revenue.

   F.   Sales Of Personal Property, Exemption: All sales of personal
property on which a specific ownership tax has been paid or is payable
shall be exempt from the town sales tax when such sales meet both of the
following conditions:

      1.   The purchaser is a nonresident of, or has its principal place
of business outside, the town; and

      2.   Such personal property is registered or required to be
registered outside the limits of the town under the laws of the state of
Colorado. (1997 Code § 3.08.040)

3-2-5: SCHEDULES OF SALES TAX:

   A.   Tax Amount: There is imposed on all sales of tangible personal
property at retail and the furnishing of services as provided in
Colorado Revised Statutes section 39-26-104, as amended, a tax equal to
two and one-half percent (2.5%) of the gross receipts. The tangible
personal property and services taxable by this chapter shall be the same
as the tangible personal property and services taxable pursuant to
Colorado Revised Statutes section 39-26-104, as amended, except the
sales of food shall not be exempt. The imposition of the tax on
individual sales shall be in accordance with schedules set forth in the
rules and regulations promulgated by the state department of revenue or
by separate ordinance of the town. If any vendor, during any reporting
period, shall collect as a tax an amount in excess of two and one- half
percent (2.5%) of his total taxable sales, he shall remit to the
Colorado department of revenue the full amount of the tax herein imposed
and also such excess. (1997 Code § 3.08.050; amd. Ord. 490, 12-1-2008;
2016 Code)

   B.   Collection, Administration And Enforcement: The collection,
administration and enforcement of this sales tax shall be performed by
the director of revenue of the state of Colorado in the same manner as
the collection, administration and enforcement of the Colorado state
sales tax. The provisions of Colorado Revised Statutes title 39, article
26, as amended hereafter, and all rules and regulations promulgated by
said director of revenue shall govern the collection, administration and
enforcement of the sales tax imposed by this chapter. (1997 Code §
3.08.050)

   C.   Exemptions: There shall be expressly exempt from items subject
to tax purchases of machinery or machine tools as provided in Colorado
Revised Statutes section 39-26-709, and sales and purchases of
electricity, coal, gas, fuel oil or coke as provided in Colorado Revised
Statutes section 39-26-115(1)(a)(II). (1997 Code § 3.08.050; amd. 2016
Code)

3-2-6: SCHEDULES OF USE TAX:

The use tax is imposed only for the privilege of storing, using or
consuming in the town any construction and building materials and motor
and other vehicles on which registration is required, purchased at
retail. However, the use tax shall not apply to those exclusions listed
in Colorado Revised Statutes section 29-2-109(1). (1997 Code § 3.08.060;
amd. 2016 Code)

3-2-7: ELECTION AND AMENDMENTS:

   A.   Election: Sales tax ordinances were submitted to and received
the approval of a majority of the registered electors of the town voting
at elections held on April 4, 2000 and November 4, 2008. (1997 Code §
3.08.070; amd. 2016 Code)

   B.   Amendments: The board of trustees may amend, alter or change
this chapter, except as to the two and one-half percent (2.5%) rate of
tax herein imposed, subsequent to adoption by a majority vote of the
board of trustees. Such amendment, alteration, or change need not be
submitted to the electors of the town for their approval. (1997 Code §
3.08.070; amd. Ord. 490, 12-1-2008)

3-2-8: PENALTY:

Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code
§ 3.08.080; amd. 2016 Code)

3-2-9: EFFECTIVE DATE:

This chapter and the sales tax shall apply to all retail sales, unless
exempt, made after November 4, 2008. (1997 Code § 3.08.090; amd. 2016
Code)

CHAPTER 3
TELEPHONE UTILITIES TAX

SECTION:

3-3-1: Levy Of Tax

3-3-2: Payment Of Taxes

3-3-3: Inspection Of Records

3-3-4: Local Purpose

3-3-5: Failure To Pay Or To File

3-3-6: Tax In Lieu Of Other Occupation Taxes

3-3-1: LEVY OF TAX:

There is hereby levied against every telephone utility which is engaged
in the business of furnishing local telephone service within the town a
tax on the privilege of engaging in such business. The amount of such
tax from the effective date hereof shall be three percent (3%) of such
telephone utility's gross annual sales derived from local telephone
service provided within the town as provided in section 3-3-2 of this
chapter. (Ord. 483, 7-2-2007)

3-3-2: PAYMENT OF TAXES:

The tax levied by this chapter shall annually be due and payable at the
office of the town clerk on or before February 15 for the preceding
calendar year of January 1 to December 31. Along with payment of the tax
levied by this chapter, each telephone utility subject to the tax
imposed by this chapter shall file with the town clerk, in such form as
the town clerk may require, a statement showing the gross annual sales
derived from local telephone service provided within the town during the
preceding calendar year. (Ord. 483, 7-2-2007)

3-3-3: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:

The town, its officers, agents, or representatives, shall have the
right, at any reasonable time, to examine the books and records of any
telephone utility that is subject to the tax imposed by this chapter,
and to make copies of the entries or contents thereof for the purpose of
enforcing the tax imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 483, 7-2-2007)

3-3-4: LOCAL PURPOSE:

The tax provided herein is upon the affected occupations and businesses
in their performance of local functions and is not a tax upon those
functions relating to interstate commerce. (Ord. 483, 7-2-2007)

3-3-5: FAILURE TO PAY OR TO FILE:

   A.   If any telephone utility subject to the tax imposed by this
chapter fails to pay the tax as provided herein, the full amount of the
tax then due and owing shall be collected from the delinquent telephone
utility together with a penalty of an additional ten percent (10%) of
the amount of taxes due. The delinquent taxes and the assessed penalty
shall be and is hereby declared to be a debt due and owing from the
delinquent telephone utility to the town. (Ord. 483, 7-2-2007)

   B.   If any officer, agent, or manager of a telephone utility that is
subject to the provisions of this chapter shall fail, neglect, or refuse
to pay any tax or to file any statement required by this chapter within
the time prescribed in this chapter, such officer, agent, or manager
shall be punished, upon conviction thereof, as provided in section 1-4-1
of this code. Each day after such tax or statement becomes or remains
delinquent shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 483, 7-2-2007;
amd. 2016 Code)

3-3-6: TAX IN LIEU OF OTHER OCCUPATION TAXES:

The tax imposed by this chapter shall be in lieu of all other occupation
taxes or taxes on the privilege of doing business within the town on any
telephone utility subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 483,
7-2-2007)

TITLE 4
BUSINESS REGULATIONS

CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES

SECTION:

4-1-1: Policy And Purpose

4-1-2: Definitions

4-1-3: Classifications

4-1-4: Levy Of Tax

4-1-5: Payment Of Tax

4-1-6: License Not Affected By Delinquency

4-1-7: Recovery Of Tax By Suit

4-1-8: Failure To Pay Tax An Offense

4-1-9: Alcoholic Beverage Tastings

4-1-10: Special Events Permit

4-1-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:

The board of trustees finds, determines and declares that, considering
the nature of the business of selling at retail 3.2 percent beer, malt,
vinous or spirituous liquors for beverage purposes and the relations of
such business to the municipal welfare, as well as the relation thereof
to the expenditures required by the town and a proper, just and
equitable distribution of tax burdens within the town, and all other
matters proper to be considered in relation thereto, that the
classification of the business as a separate occupation is reasonable,
proper, uniform and nondiscriminatory and that the amount of tax imposed
by this chapter is reasonable, proper, uniform and nondiscriminatory and
necessary for a just and proper distribution of tax burdens within the
town. (1997 Code § 5.08.030)

4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:

As herein used, certain words, unless the context indicates otherwise,
shall have the following meanings:

MALT LIQUORS: Includes beer and shall be construed to mean any beverage
obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of any infusion or decoction of
barley, malt, hops or any other similar products or any combination
thereof in water, containing more than 3.2 percent of alcohol by weight
or four percent (4%) alcohol by volume.

SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation
mixed with water and other substances in solution and includes, among
other things, brandy, rum, whiskey, gin and every liquid or solid
patented or not, containing at least one-half of one percent (0.5%)
alcohol by volume and which are fit for use for beverage purposes. Any
liquid or solid containing beer or wine in combination with any other
liquor, except as above provided, shall not be construed to be malt or
vinous liquors, but shall be construed to be spirituous liquor.

3.2 PERCENT BEER: Malt liquor as herein defined containing not more than
3.2 percent of alcohol by weight.

VINOUS LIQUORS: Includes wine and fortified wines that contain not less
than one-half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol and not exceeding twenty one
percent (21%) of alcohol by volume and shall be construed to mean
alcoholic beverages obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar
contents of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar.
(1997 Code § 5.08.010; amd. 2016 Code)

4-1-3: CLASSIFICATIONS:

   A.   Hotel And Restaurant License: Licensed to sell beer, wine and
spirituous liquors for consumption on the premises where meals are
actually and regularly served; and provided, that not less than twenty
five percent (25%) of the gross income is from the sales of food and
drink.

   B.   Beer And Wine License: Licensed to sell malt and vinous liquors
and fermented malt beverages for consumption on the premises.

   C.   Retail Liquor Store License: Licensed to sell malt, vinous and
spirituous liquors in sealed containers not to be consumed at the place
where sold.

   D.   Drugstore License: A liquor licensed drugstore allowed to sell
malt, vinous and spirituous liquors in sealed containers not to be
consumed at the place where sold.

   E.   Club License: Licensed to sell alcohol beverages by the drink
only to members of the club and guests and only for consumption on the
premises of the club.

   F.   Tavern License: Licensed to sell alcohol beverages by the drink
only to customers for consumption on the premises. A tavern licensee
shall have sandwiches and light snacks available for consumption on the
premises, but need not have meals available.

   G.   Optional Premises License: Licensed to sell alcohol beverages by
the drink only to customers for consumption on the optional premises and
for storing alcohol beverages in a secure area on or off the optional
premises for future use on the optional premises.

   H.   Bed And Breakfast Permit: In lieu of a hotel and restaurant
license, a person operating a bed and breakfast with not more than
twenty (20) sleeping rooms that offers complimentary alcohol beverages
for consumption on the premises and only by overnight guests may be
issued a bed and breakfast permit.

   I.   Brewpub License: Licensed to any person operating a brewpub and
selling alcohol beverages for consumption on the premises. (1997 Code §
5.08.020; amd. 2016 Code)

4-1-4: LEVY OF TAX:

   A.   License Types, Except Retail Liquor Stores: There is levied and
assessed for 2003 and each year thereafter an annual occupation tax upon
the business of selling beer, malt, vinous or spirituous liquors of
three hundred twenty five dollars ($325.00) for every license type,
except retail liquor stores.

   B.   Retail Liquor Stores: There is levied and assessed for 2003 and
each year thereafter an annual occupation tax upon the business of
selling beer, malt, vinous or spirituous liquors of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) for retail liquor stores. (Ord. 464, 12-1-2003; amd.
2016 Code)

4-1-5: PAYMENT OF TAX:

   A.   Due Date: Such tax shall be due and payable to the town clerk
each year at the time the liquor license renewal is filed, and no such
renewal shall be considered by the board of trustees until all fees,
including the occupation tax, are paid in full.

   B.   Issuance Of Receipt By Town: Upon receipt of such tax, it shall
be the duty of the clerk to execute and deliver to the licensee paying
the tax, a revenue receipt showing the name of the licensee paying the
tax, the date of payment, the annual period for which the tax is paid,
the place at which the licensee conducts business, and the
classification of the licensee.

   C.   Posting Of Receipt On Premises: The licensee shall, at all times
during the year, keep the receipt posted in a conspicuous place in his
place of business.

   D.   Refund; Prorating Tax; Interest On Delinquent Taxes: No refund
shall be made to any person who discontinues business during the year.
The tax will be prorated on a monthly basis for any person or firm
entering business after the commencement of the calendar year. Interest
shall accrue on all delinquent taxes herein provided for from the day of
delinquency until paid or collected, at the rate of one percent (1%) per
month.

   E.   Designation Of Classification: The licensee shall at the time he
pays his tax designate to the town clerk under what classification his
place of business is operated. (Ord. 464, 12-1-2003; amd. 2016 Code)

4-1-6: LICENSE NOT AFFECTED BY DELINQUENCY:

No delinquency in payment of the tax herein provided for shall be
grounds for suspension or revocation of any license granted to any such
licensee by any licensing authority pursuant to the statutes enacted by
the general assembly of Colorado, and in the performance of any duties
imposed upon the town board as a licensing authority by said statutes,
the town board shall exclude from consideration any delinquency in
payment of the tax herein provided. (1997 Code § 5.08.060; amd. 2016
Code)

4-1-7: RECOVERY OF TAX BY SUIT:

The town shall have the right to recover all sums due by the terms of
this chapter by judgment and execution thereon in a civil action, in any
court of competent jurisdiction; such remedy shall be cumulative with
all other remedies provided therein for the enforcement of this chapter.
(1997 Code § 5.08.070)

4-1-8: FAILURE TO PAY TAX AN OFFENSE:

Failure to comply with the terms of this chapter by payment of taxes,
securing and posting a receipt therefor, and to otherwise comply with
the terms of this chapter, shall constitute an offense and violation of
this code; delinquency for each calendar month shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense; but no conviction for such violation
shall work as a revocation of the licenses of the defendant issued under
the laws of the state of Colorado. (1997 Code § 5.08.080)

4-1-9: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE TASTINGS:

Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes section 44-3-301(10)(a), the town
hereby authorizes alcoholic beverage tastings for licensed retail liquor
stores within the town subject to the limitations contained in Colorado
Revised Statutes section 44-3-301(10) and subject to the approval by the
local licensing authority of a liquor tastings permit application in a
form approved by the town clerk. (Ord. 477, 12-5-2005; amd. Ord. 575,
6-7-2021)

4-1-10: SPECIAL EVENTS PERMIT:

   A.   Required: An organization may sell, by the drink only, malt
beverages, or malt, spirituous or vinous liquors, at a special event,
after obtaining a special events permit. (Ord. 503, 8-1-2011; amd. 2016
Code)

   B.   Time Restriction: The local licensing authority shall not issue
a special event permit to any entity for more than fifteen (15) days in
one calendar year.

   C.   Application; Form; Handling Fee:

      1.   The applicant shall fully complete an application for special
events permit as required by the state licensing authority. No
application for a special events permit shall be submitted to the town
until the applications have been completed in all respects.

      2.   There shall accompany each application for a special events
permit a handling fee to defray actual and necessary expenses and the
cost of processing the application, together with such other fees as are
required by the state licensing authority.

   D.   Documents To Accompany Application: Every application for a
special events permit shall be accompanied by the following:

      1.   Appropriate fee.

      2.   A diagram of the area to be licensed.

      3.   Copy of lease, deed or written permission from the owner of
the property giving consent for use of the property during all times of
the special event.

      4.   Certificate of good corporate standing issued by the
secretary of state within the last two (2) years; or

      5.   If not incorporated, a nonprofit charter; or

      6.   If a political candidate, copies of reports and statements
that were filed with the secretary of state.

      7.   Such other information or evidence as may, from time to time,
be required by the licensing authority for the purpose of ensuring that
the special event will be lawfully conducted and that the health,
welfare, safety and morals of the community will not be adversely
affected by reason of the nature of the special event or its location
within the community. (Ord. 503, 8-1-2011)

TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT

CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES

ARTICLE A. NUISANCES GENERALLY

SECTION:

5-1A-1: Nuisance Designated

5-1A-2: County Health Department Powers

5-1A-3: Notice To Abate

5-1A-4: Declaration Of Nuisance By Board

5-1A-5: Abatement Without Notice

5-1A-6: Assistance To Abate Authorized

5-1A-7: Recovery Of Expenses

5-1A-8: Authority To Enter On Property

5-1A-1: NUISANCE DESIGNATED:

Anything which is injurious to the health or morals or indecent or
offensive to the senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is
declared a nuisance and as such shall be abated. (1997 Code §8.28.010)

5-1A-2: COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT POWERS:

   A.   Powers: The county health department has the full power to take
all measures necessary to promote the health and cleanliness, to abate
all nuisances of every description on public and private property; to
prevent the introduction of spreading within the town of malignant,
contagious and infectious diseases and to remove, detain, isolate or
quarantine any person or persons attacked by or having any such disease,
or having been exposed thereto; to promulgate such rules and regulations
as may be necessary to perform its functions.

   B.   Enforcement Authority: The county health department shall have
the authority to enforce such rules of the health department of the
state as are applicable to particular situations. (1997 Code §8.28.020)

5-1A-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:

Any state of things prohibited by this article shall be deemed a
nuisance and any person who shall hereafter make or cause such nuisance
to exist shall be deemed the author thereof; provided, that any person
who shall have possession or control of any private ground or premises,
whether he is owner thereof or not, in or upon which any such nuisance
shall exist or may be found, whether such nuisance has been heretofore
or shall be hereafter created, shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense, as the author of a nuisance, for every period of forty eight
(48) hours continuance of such nuisance after due notice given to abate
the same. The written notice of forty eight (48) hours may be given and
served by the chief of police or other officers as he may designate.
(1997 Code §8.28.030)

5-1A-4: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE BY BOARD:

In the event that any such nuisance within or upon any private premises
or grounds is not abated forthwith after the notice herein provided
shall be given, the board of trustees may declare the same to be a
nuisance and order the chief of police to abate the same, which order
shall be executed without delay; and the chief of police shall have the
authority to call for the necessary assistance therefor. (1997 Code
§8.28.040)

5-1A-5: ABATEMENT WITHOUT NOTICE:

In case of any such nuisance in or upon any street, avenue, alley,
sidewalk, highway or public grounds in the town, the chief of police or
town administrator may abate the same forthwith without such notice
given. (1997 Code §8.28.050)

5-1A-6: ASSISTANCE TO ABATE AUTHORIZED:

Any officer who shall be duly authorized to abate any nuisance specified
in this article shall have authority to engage the necessary assistance,
and incur the necessary expenses thereof. (1997 Code §8.28.060)

5-1A-7: RECOVERY OF EXPENSES:

The expense incurred by the town in abating any nuisance may be
recovered back by proper action from the creator thereof. (1997 Code
§8.28.070)

5-1A-8: AUTHORITY TO ENTER ON PROPERTY:

The mayor, chief of police, trustees or any other persons who may be
directed or deputized by the board of trustees may enter upon or into
any lot, house or other building or premises, with proper respect for
the occupant's and owner's constitutional rights, to examine the same
and to ascertain whether any such nuisance exists, and shall be free
from any action or liability on account thereof. The inspection shall be
made at reasonable hours after twenty four (24) hours' written notice to
the owner or occupant, unless exigent circumstances exist that require
immediate action. Said notice shall be delivered to the owner and
occupant and posted on the premises where the public nuisance exists. If
the owner or occupant cannot be found after reasonable inquiry, posting
shall be sufficient notice. Said twenty four (24) hour notice can be
waived upon consent of the owner or occupant. (Ord. 527, 8-3-2015)

ARTICLE B. SPECIFIC NUISANCES

SECTION:

5-1B-1: Unwholesome Businesses

5-1B-2: Junkyards And Dumping Grounds

5-1B-3: Discharge Of Nauseous Liquids

5-1B-4: Stale Matter

5-1B-5: Sewer Inlet

5-1B-6: Slaughterhouse

5-1B-7: Dead Animals, Removal

5-1B-8: Stagnant Ponds

5-1B-9: Open Wells, Cisterns Or Excavations

5-1B-10: Noisemaking Devices To Attract Children

5-1B-11: Handbills, Posters And Placards

5-1B-12: Solicitors And Transient Vendors

5-1B-13: Storage Of Grain

5-1B-1: UNWHOLESOME BUSINESSES:

Offensive or unwholesome businesses or establishments are prohibited.
From and after the effective date hereof, it is unlawful for any person
of any kind to allow or suffer upon his premises or any premises which
he is entitled to possess any offensive or unwholesome business or
establishment within the town, or within one mile beyond the outer
limits of the town as such outer limits are now, or may be hereafter,
constituted. (1997 Code §8.32.010)

5-1B-2: JUNKYARDS AND DUMPING GROUNDS:

All places used or maintained as junkyards, or dumping grounds, or for
the wrecking or disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn out,
wrecked or abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, trailers, boats and
house trailers, or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are
kept in such manner as to essentially interfere with the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property by others, are declared to be a nuisance.
(1997 Code §8.32.020)

5-1B-3: DISCHARGE OF NAUSEOUS LIQUIDS:

It is unlawful to discharge out of or from, or permit to flow from any
house or place, foul or nauseous liquid or substance of any kind
whatsoever, into or upon any adjacent ground or lot, or into any street,
alley or public place in the town. (1997 Code §8.32.030)

5-1B-4: STALE MATTER:

It is unlawful to keep, collect or use or cause to be kept, collected or
used in the town any stale, putrid or stinking fat or grease or other
matter. (1997 Code §8.32.040)

5-1B-5: SEWER INLET:

It is unlawful to deposit in or throw into any sewer, sewer inlet or
privy vault that shall have a sewer connection, any article whatsoever
that might cause such sewer, sewer inlet or privy vault, to become
nauseous or offensive to others or injurious to public health. (1997
Code §8.32.050)

5-1B-6: SLAUGHTERHOUSE:

No slaughterhouse or other place for slaughtering animals shall be kept
within the town. (1997 Code §8.32.060)

5-1B-7: DEAD ANIMALS, REMOVAL:

When any animal shall die in the town, it shall be the duty of the owner
or keeper thereof to remove the body of such animal forthwith beyond the
limits of the town. If such body shall not forthwith be removed, the
same shall be deemed a nuisance, and such owner or keeper shall cause a
nuisance to exist. When the body of any such dead animal shall be in any
street, highway or public grounds in the town, it shall be the duty of
the chief of police to cause such body to be removed forthwith beyond
the limits of the town. (1997 Code §8.32.070)

5-1B-8: STAGNANT PONDS:

Any cellar, vault, drain, sewer, pond of water, or other place, upon or
within any private premises or grounds, in the town, that shall be
nauseous or offensive to others, or injurious to public health, through
an accumulation or deposition of nauseous, offensive or foul water, or
other substances, shall be deemed a nuisance. This applies in all cases
for which no other specific provisions are made in this article or any
other ordinance of the town. (1997 Code §8.32.080)

5-1B-9: OPEN WELLS, CISTERNS OR EXCAVATIONS:

It is declared that excavations exceeding five feet (5') in depth,
cisterns and wells or an excavation used for storage of water are public
nuisances unless the same are adequately covered with a locked lid, or
other covering weighing at least sixty (60) pounds or are securely
fenced with a solid fence to a height of at least five feet (5') and it
is unlawful for any person to permit such nuisance to remain on premises
owned or occupied by him. (1997 Code §8.32.090)

5-1B-10: NOISEMAKING DEVICES TO ATTRACT CHILDREN:

The use of bells, whistles, sirens, music horns or any other noisemaking
devices for the purpose of attracting children or minors to any vehicle
upon the streets, highways, rights of way, alleys or public ways of the
town for the purpose of selling, distributing or giving away any product
whatsoever, to such minors, is declared to be a public nuisance and
hazard and is expressly prohibited and shall be unlawful, excepting such
activities carried on as part of duly authorized public parades or
processions. (1997 Code §8.32.100)

5-1B-11: HANDBILLS, POSTERS AND PLACARDS:

Any handbill, poster, placard or painted or printed matter which shall
be stuck, posted or pasted upon any public or private house, store or
other buildings, or upon any fence, power pole, telephone pole, or other
structure without the permission of the owner, agent or occupant of the
house, shall be deemed a nuisance. (1997 Code §8.32.110)

5-1B-12: SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS:

   A.   Invitation Required: The practice of going in and upon private
residences, business establishments or offices in the town by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant and transient vendors of
merchandise, not having been requested or invited so to do by the owner
or owners, occupant or occupants of such private residences, business
establishments or offices for the purpose of soliciting orders for sale
of goods, wares and merchandise or for the purpose of disposing of or
peddling or hawking the same, is declared to be a nuisance and
punishable as such nuisance as a misdemeanor.

   B.   Enforcement: The law enforcement officers of the town are
required and directed to suppress the same, and to abate any such
nuisance as directed in subsection A of this section; provided, however,
that it is intended that the provisions of this section shall apply to
practices described in subsection A of this section which are conducted
by itinerants and transients and not by those who have been requested or
invited by the owner or occupant of private residences, business
establishments or offices; provided, further, that the provisions of
this section shall not apply to farmers selling any food item raised or
produced by them, provided such food item or items show reasonable
health standards. (1997 Code §8.32.120)

5-1B-13: STORAGE OF GRAIN:

It is determined and declared that storage of grain in open lots, and
storage of grain in buildings or bins in residential areas in the town
is unsafe to the health of the community; that such storage endangers
the health of the community, and it is declared that the remedying of
such condition insofar as it is possible to do so at this time is in the
public interest, and this section is to aid in its remedy.

   A.   Open Areas: No grain shall henceforth be stored in the open
within the corporate limits of the town.

   B.   Buildings Or Bins: No grain shall henceforth be stored in
buildings or bins, within the following described part of the town:

Commencing at the intersection of First Street with the West City Limit
Line of said Town, and running thence along First Street East to the
east line of Itea Street; thence North along the east line of Itea
Street and its northerly projection to Eighth Street or its easterly
projection, thence West along Eighth Street to the West side of Custer
Street and its Northerly projection, thence North to the North line of
Block 9, Hueske Addition to the Town of Akron, thence West along the
North line of the Hueske Addition to the City Limit Line of said Town;
thence South along said Line to the point of beginning.

(1997 Code §8.32.130)

CHAPTER 2
WEEDS AND REFUSE

SECTION:

5-2-1: Definition, Growth And Accumulation Of Weeds

5-2-2: Removal Of Weeds And Refuse; Costs

5-2-1: DEFINITION, GROWTH AND ACCUMULATION OF WEEDS:

   A.   Definition:

   WEEDS: Weeds, brush, or other undesirable vegetation. Bindweed,
Canada thistle, perennial sow thistle, Russian knapweed, common ragweed,
milkweed, common sunflower, Russian thistle, fireweed, mustards,
sandburs, and hairy stickweed shall constitute weeds. This enumeration
is not intended to be exclusive, but rather is intended to be indicative
of those types of plants which are considered a detriment to the public
health and safety, regardless of the height of said weeds. The term
"weeds" shall not include flower gardens, plots of shrubbery, vegetable
gardens, and small grain plots (wheat, barley, oats, and rye).

   B.   Premises And Alleys: No owner of any lot, block, or parcel of
ground within the town, nor any tenant or agent in charge thereof, shall
allow or permit weeds to grow, or remain when grown, on such lot, block,
or parcel of ground, or in the alley abutting upon the same from the
adjoining side of such alley to the middle line thereof, but such weeds
shall be cut close to the ground and shall be no more than twelve inches
(12") in height and/or diameter.

   C.   Adjoining Sidewalks, Road Verge, Curb and Gutter: No owner of
any lot, block, or parcel of ground within the town, nor any tenant or
agent in charge thereof, shall allow or permit weeds to grow, or remain
when grown, on or along any sidewalk, road verge, curb and gutter
adjoining the same, but such weeds shall be cut close to the ground or
removed and shall be no more than six inches (6") in height and/or
diameter.

(Ord. 590, 12-4-2023)

5-2-2: REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND REFUSE; COSTS:

   A.   If the owner of any vacant lots, or the owner or occupant of any
premises situated within the corporate limits of the town shall fail or
neglect to remove from the same and from that part of any alley abutting
upon the same from the adjoining side of such alley to the middle line
thereof, any and all noxious weeds, unsightly spontaneous vegetable
growth, refuse and filth of any kind within five (5) days after being
notified by the town so to do, then and thereafter the town manager, or
his designee, shall cause to be made such removal at the expense of the
owner, tenant or agent in charge, together with five percent (5%)
additional for inspection and other incidentals, of such vacant lot or
lots, vacant part of lot or lots, part of lot or lots, premises,
sidewalks, road verges, curbs and gutters adjoining the same from which
such removal shall be made.

   B.   Failure To Pay Expense of Removal: If such owner shall fail to
pay or cause to be paid the expense or charge authorized by subsection A
of this section to be made, or any part of such expense or charge that
may remain unpaid, the town may reimburse itself therefor and therewith
as follows: Its town clerk shall cause to be served upon any such
defaulting owner, personally or by mail, a written statement of such
expense or charge. Shall such expense or charge not be paid within ten
(10) days, the town clerk shall certify the expense or charge so found
to be due and payable, as assessment, to the treasurer of Washington
County, or the officer then having charge and custody of the tax lists
at the time such certification is made, to be by him placed on such tax
lists for the current year, to be collected in the same manner as other
taxes are collected, with ten percent (10%) penalty provided by the laws
of the state of Colorado.

(1997 Code §§ 8.36.010 - 8.36.030; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 588, 7-3-2023;
Ord. 590, 12-4-2023)

CHAPTER 3
DUTCH ELM DISEASE

SECTION:

5-3-1: Infected Trees, Nuisance

5-3-2: Enforcement

5-3-3: Abatement Of Nuisance By Owner Of Property

5-3-4: Inspections

5-3-5: Notice To Owner

5-3-6: Payment Of Costs

5-3-7: Abatement Of Nuisance On Town Property

5-3-1: INFECTED TREES, NUISANCE:

   A.   All species and varieties of elm trees (trees of genus Ulnus)
infected with the fungus known as the Dutch elm disease (ceratosto-mella
Ulmi) as determined by analysis by the state of Colorado, or by
laboratories approved by the town, are declared to be a public nuisance.

   B.   All species and varieties of elm trees that are dead or
substantially dead and all dead elm wood to which the bark is still
attached, which, because of their condition, may serve as a breeding
place for the European elm bark beetle (Scolytus multistriatus), and the
native elm bark beetle (Hylurgopinus rufipes), or any other carrier of
the disease, are declared to be public nuisances. (1997 Code § 8.04.010)

5-3-2: ENFORCEMENT:

The town administrator shall perform the duties set forth in this
chapter and shall enforce the provisions of this chapter. He may have
such assistance as the board of trustees of the town shall from time to
time provide for. (1997 Code § 8.04.020)

5-3-3: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY OWNER OF PROPERTY:

It is unlawful for any owner of any lot or parcel of land in the town to
permit or maintain on any such lot or parcel of land any dead elm wood
or elm tree which is a public nuisance as defined in this chapter, and
it shall be the duty of the owner of such lot or parcel of land to
promptly remove and burn any such elm tree or dead elm wood under the
supervision and direction of the town administrator. (1997 Code §
8.04.030)

5-3-4: INSPECTIONS:

   A.   Right Of Entry: The town administrator is authorized and
empowered to enter upon any lot or parcel of land in the town for the
purpose of inspecting any elm trees or dead elm wood situated thereon,
with proper respect for the occupant's and owner's constitutional
rights, to examine the same and to ascertain whether any such nuisance
exists, and shall be free from any action or liability on account
thereof. The inspection shall be made at reasonable hours after twenty
four (24) hours' written notice to the owner or occupant, unless exigent
circumstances exist that require immediate action. Said notice shall be
delivered to the owner and occupant and posted on the premises where
such elm trees or dead elm wood is situated. If the owner or occupant
cannot be found after reasonable inquiry, posting shall be sufficient
notice. Said twenty four (24) hour notice can be waived upon consent of
the owner or occupant. The town administrator may remove such specimens
from any such trees as are required for the purposes of the laboratory
analysis referred to in this chapter, or to determine whether such tree
because it is dead, or substantially dead, may serve as a breeding place
for any carrier of Dutch elm disease. (1997 Code § 8.04.040; amd. Ord.
527, 8-3-2015)

   B.   Unlawful To Obstruct Or Interfere With Inspection: It is
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to take any action to
prevent the town administrator from entering on any lot or parcel of
land in the town for the purpose of such inspection or to interfere with
the town administrator in the performance of any of his duties provided
for under the provisions of this chapter. (1997 Code § 8.04.040)

5-3-5: NOTICE TO OWNER:

   A.   Notice Of Nuisance Determination: If, on laboratory analysis of
specimens removed from any elm tree by the town administrator or upon
determination by the state of Colorado, it is determined that such tree
is a public nuisance as provided herein, or if the town administrator
determines that any dead, or substantially dead elm trees, or dead elm
wood, is a public nuisance as provided herein, the town administrator
shall serve or cause to be served upon the owner of record of the lot or
parcel of land on which such tree or dead elm wood is located, a written
notice requiring such owner to comply with the provisions of this
chapter. If any person, firm or corporation upon whom such notice is
served, fails, neglects or refuses to remove and destroy by burning,
such elm tree or dead elm wood within ten (10) days after service of
such notice, the town administrator may proceed to remove and burn such
tree or dead elm wood and assess the cost thereof against the owner of
such lot or parcel of land and the amount of such cost shall be paid by
the owner to the town.

   B.   Manner Of Serving Notice: Service of notice provided for in this
chapter shall be by personal service if the owner of the lot or parcel
of land on which an infected elm tree is located is a resident of the
town. If the owner cannot be found in the town or is a nonresident of
the town, written notice shall be served by certified mail to the last
known address of the owner. (1997 Code § 8.04.050)

5-3-6: PAYMENT OF COSTS:

   A.   Assessment Of Cost: If the town removes from any lot or parcel
of land in the town, any infected, dead or substantially dead elm tree
or dead elm wood, which is a public nuisance as provided by this
chapter, the assessment of the cost of the work done by the town against
the owner of the lot or parcel of land involved shall be in addition to
the penalties imposed herein for any violation or noncompliance with any
provision of this chapter.

   B.   Manner Of Making Payment: In the event the owner of any lot or
parcel of land from which infected dead or substantially dead elm tree
or dead elm wood has been removed agrees to the installment payment of
the cost thereof, the owner shall execute a promissory note payable to
the town in monthly installments, which shall bear interest at the rate
of ten percent (10%) per annum, which note will provide for installment
payments over a period of not to exceed five (5) years and will further
provide that in the event payments are not promptly made when and as
due, if any payment becomes ten (10) days or more past due, the town
clerk shall certify the unpaid balance to the Washington County
treasurer for the addition of assessment to general taxes by the county
treasurer. (1997 Code § 8.04.060)

5-3-7: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE ON TOWN PROPERTY:

Any elm tree or dead elm wood on property owned by the town which is a
public nuisance as defined in this chapter shall be promptly removed and
burned under the supervision of the town administrator at the expense of
the town. (1997 Code § 8.04.070)

CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING

SECTION:

5-4-1: Permitted And Prohibited Burning

5-4-2: Exceptions

5-4-3: Board Authority To Prohibit

5-4-4: Abatement And Penalties

5-4-1: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED BURNING:

All fires within the Town of Akron shall be enclosed in a defined
self-contained enclosure such as a pit, with a burn area not to exceed
two (2) feet in height by three (3) feet in diameter. Such enclosures
must be covered in a way as to catch embers and sparks escaping from the
fire by a covering such as a metal grate, mesh, or spark arrestor. Only
clean, untreated, and dry wood shall be used as fuel. It shall be
unlawful to burn any other fuel or in any other manner, except as
permitted under § 5-4-2. The use of burn barrels or other receptacles
for burning trash, waste, and materials other than clean, untreated, and
dry wood is expressly prohibited. (Ord. 583, 8-1-2022)

5-4-2: EXCEPTIONS:

The prohibitions of this Chapter 4 shall not apply to the following:

   A.   Training Fires: Fires set for the purpose of training
firefighting personnel, with the prior notification and approval of the
town.

   B.   Food Preparation: Outdoor burning in connection with the
preparation of food, e.g., the use of propane, gas stoves, wood pellets,
or charcoal briquette grills.

   C.   Tobacco: The use of tobacco in any form consistent with the laws
of the state of Colorado and the ordinances of the town.

   D.   Gas fire pits. (Ord. 583, 8-1-2022)

5-4-3: BOARD AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT:

The board of trustees may prohibit all outdoor burning when atmospheric
conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous. (Ord. 583,
8-1-2022)

5-4-4: ABATEMENT AND PENALTIES:

If the Town Clerk, Town Public Works Director, Town fire personnel, or
any Town law enforcement designee determines that any burning within the
Town of Akron poses a threat to the public health or safety of the
citizens of the Town of Akron, he or she shall have the authority to
summarily enter upon such property and abate the condition or order
evacuation without notice. Any person convicted of a violation of this
chapter shall be punished for each violation by a fine of not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each day during which such a violation
occurs shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 583, 8-1-2022)

CHAPTER 5
SMOKING AND ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE USE

SECTION:

5-5-1: Findings

5-5-2: Definitions

5-5-3: Prohibition Of Public Smoking And Electronic Smoking Device Use

5-5-4: Other Requirements And Prohibitions

5-5-5: Penalties And Enforcement

5-5-6: Right Of Action

5-5-7: Severability

5-5-1: FINDINGS:

   WHEREAS, according to the U.S. Surgeon General, there is no safe
level of exposure to secondhand smoke and 1 even brief exposure to
secondhand smoke can be harmful to health 2 and;

   WHEREAS, the Town of Akron has determined that it is an appropriate
and proper exercise of its police powers pursuant to article 15, of
title 31, C.R.S. to prevent public exposure to secondhand smoke from
tobacco and Electronic Smoking Devices (e-cigarettes) in public places;
and;

   WHEREAS, studies show that adolescents who live in communities with
strong smoke-free protections are less likely to smoke than adolescents
who live in communities with weaker protections 3 ; and

   WHEREAS, the aerosol or vapor from Electronic Smoking Devices
(e-cigarettes) is not harmless water vapor and not as safe as clean air
4 ; and

   WHEREAS, E-cigarettes and other Electronic Smoking Devices expose the
public to harmful chemicals, make the enforcement of smoke-free laws a
challenge and are very attractive to young people; and

   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE TOWN
OF AKRON, COLORADO, AS FOLLOWS:

The intent in enacting this ordinance is to provide for the public
health, safety, and welfare by discouraging the inherently dangerous
behavior of Smoking and Electronic Smoking Device use in municipal parks
within the Town of Akron, especially around children, by protecting the
public from exposure to secondhand Smoke. (Ord. 555, 3-4-2019)

 

Notes

  ------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1                              U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Smoking: 50
                                 Years of Progress. A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of
                                 Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National
                                 Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and
                                 Health, 2014. Printed with corrections, January 2014. Available at:
                                 
                                 http://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/sgr/50th-anniversary/index.htm

  2                              Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco
                                 Control Programs - 2014. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
                                 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease
                                 Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2014. Available at:
                                 
                                 http://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/best_practices/pdfs/2014/
                                 comprehensive.pdf

  3                              Albers, A.B. et al. (2004). Relation between Local Restaurant Smoking Regulations and
                                 Attitudes towards the Prevalence and Social Acceptability of Smoking: A Study of
                                 Youth and Adults who eat Out Predominately at Restaurants in Their Town. Tobacco
                                 Control, 13(4), pp 347-55.

  4                              Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Office on Smoking and Health. (2016).
                                 Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems: Key Facts. [Fact Sheet]. Retrieved from:
                                 https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/pdfs/ends-key-facts2015-508tagged.pdf
  ------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:

The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Article shall
have the meanings defined in this Section unless the context clearly
requires otherwise:

AKRON MUNICIPAL PARK:

any outdoor area owned and operated by the Town and open to the general
public for recreational purposes or public events, regardless of any fee
or age requirements. The term "Akron Municipal Park" specifically
includes the following described parcels of real estate situate in the
County of Washington, State of Colorado:

   Akron City Park

Lots 1 through 8, the N1/2 of Lot 9, and Lots 17 and 18 all of Block 3
of the Original Recorded Plat of the Town of Akron.

More commonly known as 345 Main Ave., Akron, CO 80720; and

   Akron Municipal Pool

That part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼NW¼) of
Section 9, Township 2 North, Range 52 West of the 6th P.M., Washington
County, Colorado, lying North of Third Street (formerly known as
Fillmore Street) of said Town of Akron, Colorado, if said street were
extended East, and being that part lying East of a line drawn parallel
with and 300 feet distant East of the East line of Date Street (formerly
Golden Street) of the Town of Akron, Colorado.

More commonly known as 382 Elm Street, Akron, CO 80720; and

   State Park

That parcel commencing at a point 80 feet West of the Northwest corner
of Block One (1) of the First Addition to the Town of Akron (according
the recorded plat thereof); thence running West in the continuation of
the South line of Fulton Street (now known as First Street) to intersect
the West line of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section Eight (8), in
Township Two (2) North, Range Fifty-two (52) West of the 6th P.M.;
thence South along said West line of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of
Section Eight (8) to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of
the South line of said Block One (1); thence Easterly along said
Westerly prolongation of the South line of Block One (1) to the West
line of Genoa Street (now known as Custer Avenue); thence Northerly
along said West line of Genoa Street to the point of commencement
aforesaid.

More commonly known as 402 West 1st St. Akron, CO 80720.

ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE:

Any device that when activated emits a vapor, aerosol, or smoke or can
be used to deliver nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device, including, but not limited to e-cigarettes,
e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens, e-hookahs, inhalant delivery systems or
any other similar product by any other name or descriptor. An electronic
smoking device includes any component, part or accessory of such device
whether or not sold separately, regardless of nicotine content or any
other substance intended to be vaporized or aerosolized for human
inhalation during the use of the device.

REASONABLE DISTANCE:

A distance that ensures that people located within an area where smoking
and Electronic Smoking Device use is prohibited are not exposed to
secondhand smoke created by smokers outside the area. This distance
shall be a minimum of fifteen (15) feet in any direction.

SMOKE:

The emissions or release of gases, particles, vapors or aerosols into
the air from burning, heating or activation of any device, including,
but not limited to a cigarette, electronic smoking device, e-cigarette,
vape pens, e-hookahs or any other product by any name or descriptor when
the apparent or usual purpose of burning, heating or activation of the
device is human tasting and inhalation.

SMOKING:

The act of burning, heating, activation or carrying of any device,
including, but not limited to a cigarette, cigar, pipe, hookah, or
Electronic Smoking Device, electronic cigarette, vape pen, e-hookah or
similar device, by any other product name or descriptor, that results in
the release of smoke, vapors or aerosols when the apparent or usual
purpose of the burning, heating or activation of the device is human
inhalation.

TOBACCO PRODUCT:

(1)   Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco or synthetic
tobacco whether or not said product contains nicotine that is intended
for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means,
including, but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing
tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff; and

(2)   Any Electronic Smoking Device; and

(3)   Notwithstanding any provision of subsections (1) and (2) to the
contrary, "Tobacco Product" includes any component, part, or accessory
of Tobacco Product, whether or not sold separately. (Ord. 555, 3-4-2019)

 

5-5-3: PROHIBITION OF PUBLIC SMOKING AND ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE USE:

   A.   Prohibition Of Smoking And Electronic Smoking Device Use Within
Akron Municipal Parks.

      1.   Smoking and electronic smoking device use is prohibited
within all Akron Municipal Parks and within a Reasonable Distance from
any Akron Municipal Park. (Ord. 555, 3-4-2019)

5-5-4: OTHER REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS:

   A.   No person shall dispose of Tobacco Products or Electronic
Smoking Device(s) waste within the boundaries of Akron Municipal Park or
within a Reasonable Distance from any Akron Municipal Park.

   B.   Signage required.

      1.    In locations where Smoking and/or Electronic Smoking Device
use is prohibited by this Article the Town shall post a clear and
conspicuous "No Smoking" and Electronic Smoking Device use or
"Smoke-free" and "Electronic Smoking Device-Free" sign with the Town
contact phone number where complaints can be directed.

      2.   For purposes of this section, the Town Manager or his/her
designee shall be responsible for the posting of signs required
hereunder.

      3.   Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of
signs shall not be a defense to a charge of Smoking and/or Electronic
Smoking Device use in violation of any other provision of this Article.

      4.   No Person or Employer shall intimidate, threaten any
reprisal, or effect any reprisal, for the purpose of retaliating against
another Person who seeks to attain compliance with this Article.

      5.   Each instance of Smoking and/or Electronic Smoking Device use
in violation of this Article shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 555, 3-4-2019)

5-5-5: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:

   A.   The remedies provided by this Article are cumulative and in
addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity.

   B.   Each incident of Smoking and/or Electronic Smoking Device use in
violation of this Article is an infraction subject to a $100.00 fine or
otherwise punishable pursuant to the Town Code. Other violations of this
Article may, at the discretion of the Town Attorney, be prosecuted as
infractions or misdemeanors when the interests of justice so require.
Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the persons
or entities with authority to enforce the Town Code for the Town of
Akron. In addition, any peace officer or code enforcement official also
may enforce this Chapter.

   C.   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation
of any provision of this Article shall also constitute a violation of
this Article. (Ord. 555, 3-4-2019)

5-5-6: RIGHT OF ACTION:

Except as otherwise provided, enforcement of this Article is at the sole
discretion of the Town. Nothing in this Article shall create a right of
action in any person against the Town or its agents to compel public
enforcement of this Article against private parties. (Ord. 555,
3-4-2019)

5-5-7: SEVERABILITY:

It is the intent of the Board of Trustees of the Town of Akron to
supplement applicable state and federal law and not to duplicate or
contradict such law and this ordinance shall be construed consistently
with that intention. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase of this ordinance, or its application to any person or
circumstance, is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable,
such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or
enforceability of the remaining sections, subsections, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses, or phrases hereof, irrespective of the fact that any
one or more other sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases hereof be declared invalid or unenforceable.

(Ord. 555, 3-4-2019)

CHAPTER 6
ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS

SECTION:

5-6-1: The Uniform Code For The Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings, 1997
Edition, Adopted

5-6-2: Penalties

5-6-1: THE UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS, 1997
EDITION, ADOPTED:

   A.   The Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1997
Edition, published by the International Conference of Building
officials, together with the appendices, tables, charts, lists and maps
contained therein is hereby adopted.

   B.   At least three (3) copies of the 1997 Edition of the Uniform
Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, as amended hereby, shall
be filed in the office of the town clerk and shall be available at all
times for public use and inspection.

(Ord. 592, 3-16-2024)

5-6-2: PENALTIES:

   Any person that violates any provision of this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of the Akron Municipal Code.

(Ord. 592, 3-16-2024)

TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY

CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT

SECTION:

6-1-1: Creation; Composition

6-1-2: Departmental Rules And Regulations

6-1-3: Chief Of Police

6-1-4: Police Officers

6-1-5: Pension Fund

6-1-1: CREATION; COMPOSITION:

There is created a police department for the town which shall consist of
one chief of police (town marshal) and as many police officer deputies
as may from time to time be deemed necessary for the safety and good
order of the town. (1997 Code § 2.36.010)

6-1-2: DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:

The police department shall be operated and managed in accordance with
such departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be
adopted by the board. (1997 Code § 2.36.020)

6-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE:

   A.   Appointment: At its first regular meeting following each
biennial election, the board of trustees shall appoint a chief of police
who shall be the head of the police department.

   B.   Oath: Before entering upon the duties of such office, the chief
of police shall take and subscribe to an oath that he will support the
constitution and laws of the state of Colorado, constitution of the
United States and ordinances of the town of Akron, and that he will
faithfully perform the duties of the office upon which he is about to
enter.

   C.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the chief of police to:

      1.   See that the ordinances of the town are duly enforced and the
rules and regulations of the police department obeyed, and to perform
such duties as may be required by the board.

      2.   Direct the operations of the police department, subject to
the rules and regulations thereof.

      3.   Arrest any person violating any of the town ordinances and
take such violator before the municipal court for trial.

      4.   Take charge of the town jail and all prisoners confined
therein, and all those who are sentenced to labor on the streets or
public works of the town, and see that orders and sentences with
reference to such are fully executed and complied with.

      5.   Render such accounts of the police department, his duties,
and receipts as may be required by the board, and keep the records of
his office open to inspection by the board at any time. (1997 Code §
2.36.030)

6-1-4: POLICE OFFICERS:

   A.   Oath: Before entering the duties of his office, each police
officer shall take and subscribe an oath that he will support the
constitution and laws of the state of Colorado, the constitution of the
United States, and the ordinances of the town, and that he will
faithfully perform the duties of the office upon which he is about to
enter. (1997 Code § 2.36.050)

   B.   Duties: All members of the police department shall have powers
and duties as follows:

      1.   They shall perform all duties required of town marshals.

      2.   They shall suppress all riots, disturbances and breaches of
the peace, apprehend all disorderly persons in the town, and shall
pursue and arrest any person fleeing from justice in any part of the
state.

      3.   They shall be the enforcement officers of the town and shall
see that the provisions of this code and the laws of the state of
Colorado are complied with. They shall arrest without process all
persons engaged in the violation in their presence of any provision of
this code or the law of the state. Upon such arrest, they shall
forthwith convey such offenders before the proper officer to be dealt
with according to law; provided, they may incarcerate any person whom
they shall arrest at a late and unusual hour of the night until the
following morning; and provided further, that in the special cases
relating to traffic offenses, they may release an arrested person upon
his written promise to appear in court.

      4.   They shall report such offenses as may come to their
knowledge to the proper town official or they shall report the same to
the police magistrate, securing a warrant for the arrest of offenders
when desirable. (1997 Code § 2.36.040)

      5.   They shall execute and return all writs and processes to them
directed by the municipal judge in any case arising under a town
ordinance, and they may serve the same in any part of the county. (1997
Code § 2.36.040; amd. 2016 Code)

      6.   They shall observe the condition of the streets, sidewalks
and alleys of the town, and of any obstruction, nuisance or impediments
therein, and shall take necessary measures to remove or abate the same.
(1997 Code § 2.36.040)

6-1-5: PENSION FUND:

   A.   Management And Administration: The policemen's pension fund
shall be managed, administered, used and disbursed under the direction
of a board of trustees of the policemen's pension fund.

   B.   Compliance With Statute: The board of trustees of the
policemen's pension fund in the town shall act and perform the duties
and exercise the powers contained in Colorado Revised Statutes title 31,
article 30.5 and shall be composed as by statute provided. (1997 Code §
2.36.060)

CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT

SECTION:

6-2-1: Department Established

6-2-2: Pension Fund

6-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:

The town shall have a volunteer fire department and the board of
trustees may enter into a cooperative agreement with a fire protection
district. The board may pay all or a proportionate share of the
necessary expenses for providing and housing firefighting equipment and
other expenses incidental to fire protection. (1997 Code § 2.40.010)

6-2-2: PENSION FUND:

   A.   Management And Administration: The firemen's pension fund shall
be managed, administered, used and disbursed under the direction of a
board of trustees of the firemen's pension fund.

   B.   Compliance With Statute: The board of trustees of the firemen's
pension fund in the town shall act and perform the duties and exercise
the powers contained in Colorado Revised Statutes title 31, article 30.5
and shall be composed as by statute provided. (1997 Code § 2.40.020)

CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY POLICE POWERS

SECTION:

6-3-1: Purpose

6-3-2: Mayor's Authority

6-3-3: Mayor's Emergency Powers

6-3-1: PURPOSE:

The town will from time to time in the future, in all probability, have
within its corporate limits fire, flood, civil disturbances and riots;
and, therefore, it is deemed in the best interest of Akron to exercise
certain emergency police powers necessary to and incidental to the
maintenance of the safety, health and welfare of the citizens of Akron.
(1997 Code § 2.56.010)

6-3-2: MAYOR'S AUTHORITY:

Emergency police powers shall be placed in the hands of the mayor of the
town and these powers should be exercised only in the event of an
emergency as herein contemplated and shall only be exercised for such
period of time as the actual emergency exists; and further, these powers
shall only be invoked after a declaration and proclamation of an
emergency. (1997 Code § 2.56.020)

6-3-3: MAYOR'S EMERGENCY POWERS:

In addition to any and all powers enumerated in this code, the mayor
shall have further emergency powers necessary to preserve the peace and
order of the town as follows:

   A.   Conditions For Declaring Emergency: The mayor shall have the
power to declare an emergency to exist when, in his opinion, one or more
of the following conditions exist:

      1.   That there is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of
life or property due to unusual conditions.

      2.   Unusual or extreme weather conditions, use of town streets or
areas difficult or impossible.

      3.   Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists.

      4.   There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a
major portion of the town.

   B.   Proclamation Of Mayor: The emergency shall be declared in a
proclamation of the mayor, which proclamation shall be delivered to the
chief of police, who shall then see that the proclamation is delivered
to all news media within the town and who shall also use public address
systems throughout the town and immediately notify the public of the
proclamation and that violators will be arrested and subject to penalty.

   C.   Authority After Emergency Declaration: After declaration of such
emergency, the mayor shall have the authority to exercise any or all of
the following powers:

      1.   To call upon regular and auxiliary enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the town to assist in preserving and
keeping the peace and the preservation of life and property of the
citizenry of Akron.

      2.   To close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within
the town wherein an emergency exists.

      3.   To impose a curfew upon all or any portion of the town
thereby requiring all persons in such designated curfew areas to
forthwith remove themselves from the public streets, alleys, parks or
other public places; provided, however, that physicians, nurses and
ambulance operators performing medical services, utility personnel
maintaining essential public service, firefighters and town authorized
or requested enforcement officers and personnel may be exempted from
such curfew.

      4.   To order the closing of any business establishments anywhere
within the town for the period of the emergency, such businesses to
include, but not be limited to, those selling intoxicating liquors, malt
beverages, gasoline or firearms.

      5.   To do any and all acts necessary and incidental to the
preservation of life, limb and property within the town.

   D.   Area And Effective Time: The proclamation of specifying with
exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist shall
become effective upon its issuance and dissemination to the public by
the appropriate news media.

   E.   Term Of Emergency Proclamation:

      1.   Any emergency proclaimed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter shall terminate after forty eight (48) hours from the
issuance thereof, or upon the issuance of a proclamation determining an
emergency no longer exists, whichever occurs first; provided, however,
upon declaration of a second or further emergencies to exist, the
emergency powers set forth herein may be exercised during such further
emergency period or periods, but never for more than forty eight (48)
hours in one declared emergency period.

      2.   No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular,
special or called meeting of the board of trustees unless at such
meeting the declaration of emergency is specifically approved by
resolution of the board. (1997 Code § 2.56.030)

CHAPTER 4
MARIJUANA FACILITIES AND RETAIL STORES PROHIBITED

SECTION:

6-4-1: Findings And Legislative Intent

6-4-2: Intent, Authority And Applicability

6-4-3: Definitions

6-4-4: Marijuana Facilities, Clubs And Stores Prohibited

6-4-5: Medical Marijuana Centers, Optional Premises Cultivation
Operations And Medical Marijuana Infused Products Manufacturers'
Licenses Prohibited

6-4-6: Prohibitions Regarding Marijuana Cultivation

6-4-7: Violations; Penalties

6-4-1: FINDINGS AND LEGISLATIVE INTENT:

The board of trustees makes the following legislative findings:

   A.   The board of trustees finds and determines that amendment 64 to
the Colorado constitution, found at article XVIII, section 16,
specifically authorizes the board of trustees of the town by ordinance
to prohibit the operation of marijuana cultivation facilities, marijuana
product manufacturing facilities, marijuana testing facilities,
marijuana clubs, or retail marijuana stores.

   B.   The board of trustees finds and determines after careful
consideration of the provisions of amendment 64, article XVIII, section
16 to the Colorado constitution; and the results of the 2010 and 2012
elections; and after evaluating, inter alia, the potential secondary
impacts associated with the retail sale, distribution, cultivation,
manufacturing, and testing of marijuana through marijuana cultivation
facilities, marijuana product manufacturing facilities, marijuana
testing facilities, marijuana clubs, or retail marijuana stores, that
such land uses have an adverse effect on the health, safety, and welfare
of the town and the citizens thereof.

   C.   The board of trustees, therefore, finds and determines that as a
result of the votes of the 2010 and 2012 elections and as a matter of
the town's local land use, zoning authority, and police powers as a
statutory town pursuant to Colorado law and consistent with the
authorization provided by amendment 64, that no suitable location exists
within the corporate limits of the town for the cultivation,
manufacture, and sale of marijuana by the operation of marijuana
cultivation facilities, marijuana product manufacturing facilities,
marijuana testing facilities, marijuana clubs, or retail marijuana
stores. (Ord. 511, 9-9-2013)

6-4-2: INTENT, AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY:

   A.   Intent: It is the intent of this section to prohibit certain
land uses related to marijuana, and in furtherance of its intent, the
board of trustees makes the following findings:

      1.   The Colorado medical marijuana code, Colorado Revised
Statutes section 12-43.3-101 et seq., clarifies Colorado law regarding
the scope and extent of article XVIII, section 14 of the Colorado
constitution;

      2.   The Colorado medical marijuana code specifically authorizes
the governing body of a municipality to "vote to prohibit the operation
of medical marijuana centers, optional premises cultivation operations,
and medical marijuana infused products manufacturers' licenses";

      3.   The Colorado medical marijuana code specifically authorizes a
municipality "to prohibit the operation of medical marijuana centers,
optional premises cultivation operations, and medical marijuana infused
products manufacturers' licenses...based on local government zoning,
health, safety and welfare laws for the distribution of medical
marijuana";

      4.   Article XVIII, section 16 of the Colorado constitution
specifically authorizes a municipality "to prohibit the operation of
marijuana cultivation facilities, marijuana product manufacturing
facilities, marijuana testing facilities, or retail marijuana stores
through the enactment of an ordinance";

      5.   Based on careful consideration of the Colorado medical
marijuana code, article XVIII, section 14 of the Colorado constitution,
article XVIII, section 16 of the Colorado constitution, and the
potential secondary effects of the cultivation, sale, distribution,
manufacturing, consumption and dispensing of marijuana or marijuana
infused products, such land uses have an adverse effect on the health,
safety and welfare of the town and its inhabitants.

   B.   Authority: The town's authority to adopt this section is found
in: the Colorado medical marijuana code, Colorado Revised Statutes
section 12-43.3-101 et seq.; article XVIII, section 16 of the Colorado
constitution, the local government land use control enabling act,
Colorado Revised Statutes section 29-20-101 et seq.; Colorado Revised
Statutes section 31-23-101 et seq. (municipal zoning powers); Colorado
Revised Statutes sections 31-15-103, 31-15-401 (municipal police
powers); Colorado Revised Statutes section 31-15-501 (municipal
authority to regulate businesses); and the election results of the 2010
and 2012 elections.

   C.   Applicability: This section shall apply to all property within
the town. To the extent that the town is required to allow the
cultivation of medical marijuana or marijuana for personal use under
state law, the rules set forth herein shall apply. Nothing in this
section shall be interpreted to permit marijuana dispensaries of any
kind otherwise prohibited by this or any other chapter. If the Colorado
medical marijuana code, article XVIII, section 14 of the Colorado
constitution, article XVIII, section 16 of the Colorado constitution are
declared unlawful in violation of federal law, nothing in this code
shall be deemed to permit the cultivation, possession or use of
marijuana for medical or any other purpose. Nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to provide a defense to the prosecution of offenses
under the federal controlled substances act occurring in the town of
Akron. (Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)

6-4-3: DEFINITIONS:

For purposes of this chapter, unless otherwise specified or the context
otherwise requires, any terms used herein shall have the same meanings
as provided in article XVIII, section 16 to the Colorado constitution.
These definitions include, but are not limited to, the following:

ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A subordinate structure detached from but located
on the same lot as the primary residence, the use of which is incidental
and accessory to that of the primary residence.

MARIJUANA: All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis whether growing
or not, the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the
plant, and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or its resin, including marijuana
concentrate. Marijuana does include medical marijuana but does not
include industrial hemp, nor does it include fiber produced from the
stalks, oil, or cake made from the seeds of the plant, sterilized seed
of the plant which is incapable of germination, or the weight of any
other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical or oral
administrations, food, drink, or other product.

MARIJUANA ACCESSORIES: Any equipment, products, or materials of any kind
which are used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, composting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
vaporizing, or containing marijuana, or for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.

MARIJUANA CLUB: An entity that allows members and their guests to
consume marijuana or marijuana products on the premises in a
commercially zoned area.

MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITY: An entity licensed to cultivate,
prepare, and package marijuana and sell marijuana to retail marijuana
stores, to marijuana product manufacturing facilities and to other
marijuana cultivation facilities, but not to consumers.

MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT: A marijuana cultivation facility, a marijuana
testing facility, a marijuana product manufacturing facility, or a
retail marijuana store.

MARIJUANA PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY: An entity licensed to purchase
marijuana; manufacture, prepare, and package marijuana products; and
sell marijuana and marijuana products to other marijuana product
manufacturing facilities and to retail marijuana stores, but not to
consumers.

MARIJUANA PRODUCTS: Concentrated marijuana products and marijuana
products that are comprised of marijuana and other ingredients and are
intended for use or consumption, such as, but not limited to, edible
products, ointments, and tinctures.

MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY: An entity licensed to analyze and certify
the safety and potency of marijuana.

MEDICAL MARIJUANA: Marijuana that is grown and sold for a purpose
authorized by article XVIII, section 14 of the Colorado constitution.

MEDICAL MARIJUANA CENTER: A person authorized to be licensed to operate
a business as described in the Colorado medical marijuana code that
sells medical marijuana to registered patients or primary caregivers as
defined in article XVIII, section 14 of the Colorado constitution, but
is not a primary caregiver, and which a municipality is authorized to
prohibit as a matter of law.

MEDICAL MARIJUANA INFUSED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURER: A person licensed
pursuant to the Colorado medical marijuana code to operate a business
pursuant to a medical marijuana infused products manufacturing license,
and that a municipality is authorized to prohibit as a matter of law.

OPTIONAL PREMISES CULTIVATION OPERATION: A person licensed pursuant to
the Colorado medical marijuana code to operate a business known as an
optional premises grow facility in order to grow and cultivate marijuana
for a purpose authorized by article XVIII, section 14 of the Colorado
constitution, and that a municipality is authorized to prohibit as a
matter of law.

PATIENT: Has the meaning provided in article XVIII, section 14(1)(d) of
the Colorado constitution.

PERSON: A natural person, partnership, association, company,
corporation, limited liability company, or organization, or a manager,
agent, owner, director, servant, officer, or employee thereof.

PRIMARY CAREGIVER: Has the meaning provided in article XVIII, section
14(1)(f) of the Colorado constitution.

PRIMARY RESIDENCE: A residence where a person, by custom and practice,
makes his or her principal domicile and address and to which the person
intends to return following any temporary absence, such as a vacation.
Residence is evidenced by actual daily physical presence, use and
occupancy of the primary residence and use of the residential address
for domestic purposes, such as, but not limited to, slumber, preparation
and partaking of meals, regular mail delivery, vehicle registration, or
credit, water and utility billing. A person shall have only one primary
residence.

RETAIL MARIJUANA STORE: An entity licensed to purchase marijuana from
marijuana cultivation facilities and marijuana and marijuana products
from marijuana product manufacturing facilities and to sell marijuana
and marijuana products to consumers. (Ord. 511, 9-9-2013; amd. Ord. 544,
10-3-2016)

6-4-4: MARIJUANA FACILITIES, CLUBS AND STORES PROHIBITED:

   A.   It is unlawful for any person to operate, cause to be operated,
or permit to be operated a marijuana cultivation facility, marijuana
product manufacturing facility, marijuana testing facility, marijuana
club, or retail marijuana store within the town, and all such uses are
hereby prohibited in any location within the town, or within any area
hereinafter annexed to the town.

   B.   The use of property as a marijuana cultivation facility,
marijuana product manufacturing facility, marijuana testing facility,
marijuana club, or retail marijuana store within the town are all uses
prohibited in any zoning district. (Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)

6-4-5: MEDICAL MARIJUANA CENTERS, OPTIONAL PREMISES CULTIVATION
OPERATIONS AND MEDICAL MARIJUANA INFUSED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURERS'
LICENSES PROHIBITED:

   A.   Operation Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to operate,
cause to be operated or permit to be operated a medical marijuana
center, an optional premises cultivation operation, or a facility for
which a medical marijuana infused products manufacturers' license could
otherwise be obtained within the town, and all such uses are hereby
prohibited in any location within the town, or within any area
hereinafter annexed to the town.

   B.   Use Prohibited: The use of property as a medical marijuana
center, optional premises cultivation operation, or a facility for which
a medical marijuana infused products manufacturers' license could
otherwise be obtained within the town, are all uses prohibited in any
zoning district.

   C.   Patients And Primary Caregivers: Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed to prohibit, regulate or otherwise impair the use of
medical marijuana by patients as defined by the Colorado constitution or
the provision of medical marijuana by a primary caregiver to a patient
in accordance with the Colorado constitution and consistent with
Colorado Revised Statutes section 25-1.5-106 and rules promulgated
thereunder, as the statute and rules may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)

6-4-6: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MARIJUANA CULTIVATION:

   A.   It is unlawful to grow medical marijuana or marijuana for
personal or medicinal use anywhere in the town other than in an
enclosed, locked space within a detached single-family residential
property used as that person's primary residence, or single-family
residential garage or in a detached accessory structure on the same lot
as the primary residence under the ownership of the person cultivating
the marijuana or with the written permission of the property owner.
"Enclosed" means having a roof and all sides closed to the weather with
walls, windows or doors.

   B.   At any given time, no more than twelve (12) marijuana plants in
any stage of maturity may be grown, cultivated or processed at a primary
residence or in an accessory structure.

   C.   It is unlawful to cultivate marijuana inside a residential
dwelling in an area exceeding fifty (50) square feet or exceeding a
height of ten feet (10'). This limit applies regardless of the number of
qualified patients or caregivers or persons otherwise allowed to possess
and grow marijuana for personal use residing in the residence. The
cultivation area shall be a single, locked area and shall not be
accessible to anyone under the age of twenty one (21).

   D.   It is unlawful to cultivate marijuana in a detached accessory
structure that is greater than fifty (50) square feet or more than ten
feet (10') in height or in an attached or detached garage in an area
that is greater than fifty (50) square feet. Any garage or accessory
structure used for the cultivation of marijuana, including all walls,
doors, and the roof, shall be constructed with a firewall assembly of
type X drywall meeting the minimum building code requirements for
residential structures. Other provisions of this chapter
notwithstanding, a building permit is required for an accessory
structure used for growing marijuana and it must meet setback
requirements of structures greater than fifty (50) square feet.

   E.   It is unlawful to use any lighting for the indoor cultivation of
marijuana other than light emitting diodes (LED), compact fluorescent
lamps (CFL) or fluorescent lighting. All high intensity discharge (HID)
lighting including, but not limited to, mercury vapor lamps, metal
halide (MH) lamps, ceramic MH lamps, sodium vapor lamps, high pressure
sodium (HPS) lamps and xenon short arc lamps are prohibited.

   F.   It is unlawful to use flammable gas products (e.g., butane) or
flammable liquid products for indoor marijuana cultivation or
processing. For purposes of this paragraph, "flammable liquid" means a
liquid that has a flashpoint below one hundred degrees Fahrenheit
(100°F) and includes all forms of alcohol and ethanol.

   G.   It is unlawful to use a kitchen, bathroom, or primary bedroom
for the indoor cultivation of marijuana.

   H.   It is unlawful to cultivate marijuana in any structure without
complying with applicable building and fire codes, including plumbing
and electrical, and all applicable zoning codes, including, but not
limited to, lot coverage, setback and height requirements.

   I.   Any indoor marijuana cultivation area shall include a
ventilation and filtration system designed to ensure that odors from the
cultivation are not detectable beyond the property line for detached
single-family residential, and designed to prevent mold and moisture and
otherwise protect the health and safety of persons residing in the
residence. This shall include, at a minimum, a system meeting the
requirements of the current, adopted edition of the international
residential building code.

   J.   It is unlawful to store chemicals used for marijuana cultivation
inside of the habitable areas of the residence or within public view
from neighboring properties and public rights of way.

   K.   It shall be unlawful for any marijuana cultivation activity to
adversely affect the health or safety of the nearby residents by
creating dust, glare, heat, noise, noxious gases, odor, smoke, traffic,
vibration, or other impacts; or be hazardous due to the use or storage
of materials, processes, products or wastes, or from other actions
related to the cultivation.

   L.   Marijuana shall not be grown, cultivated, or processed in more
than one structure on any single lot, parcel, or tract.

   M.   Nonresidential buildings or structures that are not accessory to
a primary residence shall not be used for the growing, cultivating, or
processing of marijuana.

   N.   Marijuana shall not be grown, cultivated, or processed outdoors.
(Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)

6-4-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:

   A.   A violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punishable as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 511,
9-9-2013; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)

   B.   Each and every day a violation of the provisions of this chapter
is committed, exists, or continues shall be deemed a separate offense.

   C.   The town is specifically authorized to seek an injunction,
abatement, restitution, or any other remedy necessary to prevent,
enjoin, abate, or remove the violation.

   D.   Any remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law
or in equity. (Ord. 511, 9-9-2013; amd. Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)

CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES

ARTICLE A. OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT

SECTION:

6-5A-1: Resisting An Officer; Escaping; Rescuing Prisoner

6-5A-2: Duty Of Citizens To Aid Police Officers

6-5A-3: Impersonating Officials

6-5A-4: False Alarms

6-5A-1: RESISTING AN OFFICER; ESCAPING; RESCUING PRISONER:

   A.   Resisting An Officer: It is unlawful for any person to resist
any police officer, any member of the police department, or any person
duly empowered with police authority, while in the discharge or apparent
discharge of his duty, or in any way to interfere with or hinder him in
the discharge of his duty.

   B.   Assisting In Escape: It is unlawful for any person to offer or
endeavor to assist any person in the custody of a police officer, a
member of the police department or a person duly empowered with police
authority to escape or to attempt to escape from such custody.

   C.   Rescuing Prisoner: It is unlawful for any person to rescue or to
attempt to rescue any person in the custody of a police officer, a
member of the police department or a person duly empowered with police
authority. (1997 Code §9.04.010)

6-5A-2: DUTY OF CITIZENS TO AID POLICE OFFICERS:

It shall be the duty of all persons, when called upon by any police
officer or any other member of the police department, to promptly aid
and assist such officer or member in the discharge of his duties. (1997
Code §9.04.020)

6-5A-3: IMPERSONATING OFFICIALS:

   A.   Police Officers:

      1.   It is unlawful for any person other than an official police
officer of the town to wear the uniform, apparel, or any other insignia
of office like or similar to, or a colorable imitation of that adopted
and worn by the official police officers.

      2.   It is unlawful for any person to counterfeit, imitate or
cause to be counterfeited, imitated or colorably imitated, the uniform,
apparel, or insignia of officer used by the police department of the
town. (1997 Code §9.04.030)

   B.   Town Officers And Employees: It is unlawful for any person to
wilfully, unlawfully, or fraudulently represent himself to be a town
officer or an employee of the city and purporting to perform the duties
of any such officer or employee when he is not an authorized officer or
employee of the town. (1997 Code §9.04.040)

6-5A-4: FALSE ALARMS:

Any person who shall, in the town, intentionally make or give a false
alarm of fire shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1997 Code
§9.04.050)

ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY

SECTION:

6-5B-1: Assault

6-5B-2: Throwing Of Stones And Missiles

6-5B-3: Disorderly Conduct

6-5B-4: Assembling To Commit Unlawful Act

6-5B-5: Disturbing Religious Worship

6-5B-6: Disturbing The Peace; Using Offensive Language

6-5B-7: Drunk And Disorderly

6-5B-8: Harassment

6-5B-9: Abandoned Containers, Wells Or Cisterns

6-5B-10: Explosives

6-5B-11: Weapons

6-5B-12: Drugs And Drug Paraphernalia

6-5B-1: ASSAULT:

No person shall knowingly or recklessly use physical force against
another in a violent or angry manner. (Ord. 534, 10-5-2015)

6-5B-2: THROWING OF STONES AND MISSILES:

No person shall throw or shoot any stone or other missile at or upon any
person, animal, public or private property, building, structure, tree or
shrub. (1997 Code §9.08.020)

6-5B-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:

   A.   A person commits disorderly conduct if he intentionally,
knowingly or recklessly:

      1.   Makes a coarse and obviously offensive utterance, gesture or
display in a public place and the utterance, gesture or display tends to
incite an immediate breach of the peace; or

      2.   Abuses or threatens a person in a public place in an
obviously offensive manner; or

      3.   Makes unreasonable noise in a public place or near a private
residence that he has no right to occupy; or

      4.   Fights with another in a public place except in an amateur or
professional contest of athletic skill; or

      5.   Not being a peace officer, discharges a firearm in a public
place except when engaged in lawful target practice or hunting; or

      6.   Not being a peace officer, displays a deadly weapon in a
public place in a manner calculated to alarm.

   B.   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under subsection A2
of this section that the actor had significant provocation for the
abusive or threatening conduct. (1997 Code §9.08.030)

6-5B-4: ASSEMBLING TO COMMIT UNLAWFUL ACT:

It is unlawful for any three (3) or more persons to assemble together in
the town with an intent to do any unlawful act; or, being assembled,
mutually to agree or act in concert, to do an unlawful act with force or
violence against the property of the town or the person or property of
another or against the peace and to the terror of others; or to make any
more or preparation therefor; or, being present at such meeting or
assembly, to fail to endeavor to prevent the commission of or
perpetration of such unlawful act. (1997 Code §9.08.040)

6-5B-5: DISTURBING RELIGIOUS WORSHIP:

It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to disquiet or
disturb any congregation or assembly for religious worship by making a
noise or by rude or indecent behavior, or profane discourse within their
place of worship, or so near the same as to disturb the order or
solemnity of the meeting. (1997 Code §9.08.050)

6-5B-6: DISTURBING THE PEACE; USING OFFENSIVE LANGUAGE:

It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb or intend to disturb the
peace of others by violent, tumultuous, offensive or obstreperous
conduct, or by loud or unusual noises, or by unseemly, profane, obscene,
or offensive language, calculated to provoke a breach of the peace; or
by assaulting, striking or fighting another, or for any person to permit
any such conduct in any house or upon any premises owned or possessed by
him under his management or control, when within his power to prevent,
so that others in the vicinity are or may be disturbed thereby. (1997
Code §9.08.060)

6-5B-7: DRUNK AND DISORDERLY:

It shall be unlawful for any person to be drunk or disorderly in any
highways, streets, thoroughfares or other public places, or in any
private house or place, within the town to such an extent as to be
obnoxious to public morals or to jeopardize or to be injurious to person
or property. (1997 Code §9.08.070)

6-5B-8: HARASSMENT:

   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context
otherwise requires, the following terms have the following meanings:

   CONDUCT: In connection with a credible threat, acts which further,
advance, promote, or have a continuity of purpose, and may occur before,
during, or after the credible threat.

   CREDIBLE THREAT: A threat, physical action, or repeated conduct that
would cause a reasonable person to be in fear for their safety or the
safety of their immediate family or of someone with whom the person has
or has had a continuing relationship. Such threat need not be directly
expressed if the totality of the conduct would cause a reasonable person
to fear.

   IMMEDIATE FAMILY: Includes the person's spouse and the person's
parent, grandparent, sibling, or child.

   OBSCENE: Any patently offensive language including, but not limited
to, any description of ultimate sexual acts or solicitation to commit
ultimate sexual acts, whether or not the ultimate sexual acts are normal
or perverted, actual or simulated, including masturbation, cunnilingus,
fellatio, anilingus, or excretory functions.

   PROTECTED PERSON: The person or persons identified in the restraining
order as the person or persons for whose benefit the restraining order
was issued.

   REPEATED OR REPEATEDLY: On more than one occasion.

   RESTRAINING ORDER: Any civil or criminal restraining or protection
order that prohibits the restrained person from contacting, harassing,
injuring, intimidating, molesting, threatening, or touching any
protected person; or from entering or remaining on premises; or from
coming within a specified distance of a protected person or premises or
any other provision to protect the protected person from imminent danger
to life or health, that is issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
The term "restraining order" also includes any order that amends,
modifies, supplements, or supersedes the initial restraining order.

   B.   Actions Considered As Harassment: It shall be unlawful for any
person to harass another. A person commits harassment if, with intent to
harass, annoy, or alarm another person, such person:

      1.   Strikes, shoves, kicks, or otherwise touches another person
or subjects another person to physical contact; or

      2.   In a public place directs obscene language or makes an
obscene gesture to or at another person; or

      3.   Follows another person in or about a public or private place;
or (Ord. 487, 8-4-2008)

      4.   Initiates communication with another person, anonymously or
otherwise, by telephone, telephone network, data network, text message,
instant message, computer, computer network, or computer system in a
manner intended to harass, annoy, alarm another person or intended to
threaten bodily injury or property damage; or (Ord. 532, 10-5-2015)

      5.   Makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
another person by telephone, computer, computer network, or computer
system that is obscene; or

      6.   Makes a telephone call or causes a telephone to ring
repeatedly, whether or not a conversation ensues, with no purpose of
legitimate conversation; or

      7.   Makes repeated communications at inconvenient hours that
invade the privacy of another and interfere in the use and enjoyment of
another's home or private residence or other private property; or

      8.   Repeatedly insults, taunts, challenges, or makes
communications in offensively coarse language to another in a manner
likely to provoke a violent or disorderly response.

   C.   Place Where Act Committed: Any act prohibited by subsection B of
this section may be deemed to have occurred or to have been committed at
the place at which the telephone call, electronic mail, or other
electronic communication was either made or received.

   D.   Stalking: A person commits stalking if, directly or indirectly
through another person, such person knowingly:

      1.   Makes a credible threat to another person and, in connection
with that threat, repeatedly follows, approaches, contacts, or places
under surveillance another person, a member of that person's immediate
family, or someone with whom that person has or has had a continuing
relationship; or

      2.   Makes a credible threat to another person and, in connection
with that threat, repeatedly makes any form of communication with
another person, a member of that person's immediate family, or someone
with whom that person has or has had a continuing relationship,
regardless of whether a conversation ensues; or

      3.   Repeatedly follows, approaches, contacts, places under
surveillance, or makes any form of communication with another person, a
member of that person's immediate family, or someone with whom that
person has or has had a continuing relationship in a manner that would
cause a reasonable person to suffer serious emotional distress and does
cause that person, a member of that person's immediate family, or
someone with whom that person has or has had a continuing relationship
to suffer serious emotional distress. For purposes of this section, a
victim need not show that the victim received professional treatment or
counseling to show that the victim suffered serious emotional distress.

   E.   Violation Of Restraining Order: It shall be unlawful for any
person to commit the offense of violating a restraining order. A person
commits the offense of violating a restraining order if such person
contacts, harasses, injures, intimidates, molests, threatens, or touches
any protected person; enters or remains on premises; comes within a
specified distance of a protected person or premises; or violates any
other provision of a restraining order to protect the protected person
from imminent danger to life or health, and such conduct is prohibited
by a restraining order, after such person has been personally served
with any such order or otherwise has acquired from the court actual
knowledge of the contents of any such order. (Ord. 487, 8-4-2008)

   F.   Penalty: Violations of this section shall be punishable as
provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 487, 8-4-2008; amd. 2016
Code)

6-5B-9: ABANDONED CONTAINERS, WELLS OR CISTERNS:

It is unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of
any dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or
abandoned building, structure or dwelling under his control, in a place
accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded ice box,
refrigerator or other container which has a door or lid, snap lock or
other locking device which may not be released from the inside without
first removing the door or lid, snap lock or other locking device. (1997
Code §9.16.020)

6-5B-10: EXPLOSIVES:

It is unlawful for any person to store within the town limits or within
one mile thereof any amount of gunpowder, blasting powder,
nitroglycerin, dynamite or other high explosives in excess of one
50-pound box or in excess of five hundred (500) caps or other devices
used for the detonation of such high explosives. (1997 Code §9.16.010)

6-5B-11: WEAPONS:

   A.   Carrying Concealed Weapons:

      1.   It is unlawful for any person to wear under his clothes, or
concealed about his person, or to display in a threatening manner, any
dangerous or deadly weapon including, but not by way of limitation, any
pistol, revolver, slingshot, cross knuckles or knuckles of lead, brass
or other metal, or any bowie knife, dirk, dagger or any knife resembling
a bowie knife, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon.

      2.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, company or association
to sell, offer to sell, display, use, possess or carry any knife or
knives having the appearance of a pocketknife, the blade or blades of
which can be opened by a flick of a button, pressure on the handle, or
other mechanical contrivance. Any such knife is declared to be a
dangerous or deadly weapon within the meaning of subsection A1 of this
section, and shall be subject to forfeiture to the town as provided in
subsection A3 of this section.

      3.   Every person convicted of any violation of this subsection A
shall forfeit to the town such dangerous or deadly weapon so concealed
or displayed.

      4.   Nothing in this subsection A shall be construed to forbid
United States marshals, sheriffs, constables and their deputies, and any
regular, special or ex officio police officer, or any other law
enforcement officer from carrying or wearing, while on duty, such
weapons as shall be necessary in the proper discharge of their duties.
(1997 Code § 9.32.010)

   B.   Disposition Of Confiscated Concealed Weapons: It shall be the
duty of every police officer, upon making any arrest and taking such a
concealed weapon from the person of the offender, to deliver the same to
the municipal judge to be held by him until the final determination of
the prosecution for the offense; and upon the finding of guilt, it shall
then be the duty of the municipal judge to deliver the weapon forthwith
to the chief of police who shall make disposition of the weapon. (1997
Code § 9.32.020)

   C.   Selling Weapons To Intoxicated Persons:

      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
purchase, sell, loan or furnish any gun, pistol, or other firearm in
which any explosive substance can be used, to any person under the
influence of alcohol or any narcotic drug, stimulant or depressant, or
to any person in a condition of agitation and excitability, or to any
minor under the age of eighteen (18) years.

      2.   Further, such unlawful purchase, sale, loan or furnishing
shall be grounds for revocation of any license issued by the town to
such person, firm or corporation. (1997 Code § 9.32.030)

   D.   Possession, Carrying Or Using Dangerous Or Deadly Weapons: It
shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession except within
his own domicile, or to carry or use, a revolver or pistol of any
description, shotgun, or rifle, which may be used for the explosion of
cartridges, or any air gun, gas operated gun or spring gun, or any
instrument, toy or weapon commonly known as a "peashooter", "slingshot",
or "beanie" or any bow made for the purpose of throwing or projecting
missiles of any kind by any means whatsoever, whether such instrument is
called by any name set forth above or by any other name; provided, that
nothing in this subsection contained shall prevent the use of any such
instruments in shooting galleries or in any private grounds or residence
under circumstances when such instrument can be fired, discharged, or
operated in such a manner as not to endanger persons or property and
also in such manner as to prevent the projectile from traversing any
grounds or space outside the limits of such gallery, grounds or
residence; and further provided, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed to prevent the concealed carrying of any type of gun
whatsoever when unloaded and properly cased, to or from any range or
gallery. (1997 Code § 9.32.040)

   E.   Exception, Permit To Carry Concealed Weapon: The provisions of
this section shall not apply to a person who, at the time of carrying
the concealed weapon, held a valid written permit to carry a concealed
weapon issued pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes section 18-12-105.1,
as it existed prior to its repeal; or, if the weapon involved was a
handgun, held a valid permit to carry a concealed handgun or a temporary
emergency permit issued pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes title 18,
article 12, part 2, except that it shall be an offense under this
section if the person was carrying a concealed handgun in violation of
Colorado Revised Statutes section 18-12-214.

   F.   Lawful Carrying Of Firearms In Certain Town Buildings: It shall
not be a violation of this section or of C.R.S. § 18-12-105.3(1)(b) to
carry a firearm within any building in which the board of trustees of
the town’s chambers are located, in any building in which a meeting of
the board of trustees of the town is being conducted, in any building in
which the official office of any trustee of the town is located, or in
any building in which the office of the town administrator is located.

(Ord. 533, 10-5-2015; amd. Ord. 597, 10-11-2024)

6-5B-12: DRUGS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:

   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:

   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: A drug or other substance or an immediate
precursor which is declared to be a controlled substance, and also
includes marijuana and marijuana concentrate.

   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials of any kind
which are used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing,
analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human
body a controlled substance in violation of the laws of the town.

   MARIJUANA: Shall have the same meaning as in section 6-4-3 of this
title.

   MARIJUANA ACCESSORIES: Shall have the same meaning as in section
6-4-3 of this title.

   MARIJUANA PRODUCTS: Shall have the same meaning as in section 6-4-3
of this title.

   OPENLY AND PUBLICLY: In a manner perceptible by or in a place
accessible to the members of the community.

   PUBLIC AREA OR BUILDING: A place open to the general public which
includes a place to which the public or a substantial number of the
public has access without restriction, including, but not limited to,
streets, highways, public sidewalks, transportation facilities including
rest areas, places of amusement, parks, playgrounds, town owned open
spaces, common open spaces owned by owners' associations, common areas
of public buildings and facilities that are generally open or accessible
to members of the public without restriction, parking lots and areas and
shopping centers or shopping areas.

   B.   Possession Of Marijuana, Marijuana Products And Marijuana
Accessories:

      1.   It is unlawful for a person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to consume, possess, transfer, transport or purchase marijuana
products, marijuana accessories or less than one ounce of marijuana.

      2.   It is unlawful for a person twenty one (21) years of age or
older to possess, transfer, transport or purchase less than one ounce of
marijuana, marijuana products or marijuana accessories for any reason
other than personal use unless the person has obtained a current valid
license to operate a marijuana product manufacturing facility, testing
facility, cultivation agent of a licensed manufacturing, testing,
cultivation or retail marijuana facility.

      3.   It is unlawful for a person of any age to consume marijuana
openly and publicly or in a manner that endangers others.

      4.   It is unlawful to make marijuana grown for personal use
available for sale in any manner.

      5.   It is unlawful to possess, use, display, transfer, sell,
transport, grow or purchase marijuana products, marijuana accessories or
less than one ounce of marijuana in any public area or building, except
that marijuana or marijuana products may be transported on public
streets, roads and highways if the person has obtained a current, valid
license to operate a marijuana product manufacturing facility, testing
facility, cultivation facility or retail marijuana store or is acting in
his or her capacity as an owner, employee or agent of a licensed
manufacturing, testing, cultivation or retail marijuana facility.

   C.   Possession, Sale Or Promotion Of Paraphernalia:

      1.   It shall be a violation of this section for any person who
knowingly commits the following:

         a.   Possess drug paraphernalia and knows or reasonably should
know that the drug paraphernalia could be used under circumstances in
violation of the laws of this town.

         b.   Sell or deliver, possess with intent to sell or deliver or
manufacture with intent to sell or reasonably should know, that such
equipment, products or materials could be used as drug paraphernalia.

         c.   Place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill or other publication and intends thereby to promote the sale in
the town of equipment, products or materials designed and intended for
use as drug paraphernalia.

      2.   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, the
municipal court, in its discretion, may consider, in addition to all
other relevant factors, the following:

         a.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the
object concerning its use;

         b.   The proximity of the object to a controlled substance;

         c.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on
the object;

         d.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the knowledge of an
owner or of anyone in control of the object, or evidence that such
person reasonably should know, that it will be delivered to persons who
he or she knows, or reasonably should know, could use the object to
facilitate a violation of this section;

         e.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
which explain or depict its use;

         f.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which
explain or depict its use;

         g.   National or local advertising concerning its use;

         h.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;

         i.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is
a supplier of like or related items to the community for legal purposes,
such as an authorized distributor or dealer of tobacco products;

         j.   The existence and scope of legal uses for the object in
the community; and

         k.   Expert testimony concerning its use. (Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)

ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY

SECTION:

6-5C-1: Gambling

6-5C-2: Public Indecency

6-5C-3: Indecent Exposure

6-5C-4: Window Peeping

6-5C-5: Dissemination Of Obscene Materials

6-5C-1: GAMBLING:

   A.   Gambling Unlawful; Definitions:

      1.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:

   GAIN: The direct realization of winnings; "profit" means any other
realized or unrealized benefit, direct or indirect, including, without
limitation, benefits from proprietorship, management, or unequal
advantage in a series of transactions.

   GAMBLING: Risking any money, credit, deposit or other thing of value
for gain contingent in whole or in part upon lot, chance, the operation
of a gambling device, or the happening or outcome of an event including
a sporting event, over which the person taking a risk has no control,
but does not include:

         a.   Bona fide contests of skill, speed, strength, or endurance
in which awards are made only to entrants or the owners of entries;

         b.   Bona fide business transactions which are valid under the
law of contracts;

         c.   Other acts or transactions now or hereafter expressly
authorized by law;

         d.   Any game, wager, or transaction which is incidental to a
bona fide social relationship, is participated in by natural persons
only, and in which no person is participating, directly or indirectly,
in professional gambling; or

         e.   Any use of or transaction involving a crane game, as
defined in Colorado Revised Statutes section 12-47.1-103(5.5).

   GAMBLING DEVICE: Any device, machine, paraphernalia, or equipment
that is used or usable in the playing phase of any professional gambling
activity, whether that activity consists of gambling between persons or
gambling by a person involving the playing of a machine; except that,
the term does not include a crane game, as defined in Colorado Revised
Statutes section 12-47.1-103(5.5).

   PROFESSIONAL GAMBLING:

         a.   Aiding or inducing another to engage in gambling, with the
intent to derive a profit therefrom; or

         b.   Participating in gambling and having, other than by virtue
of skill or luck, a lesser chance of losing or a greater chance of
winning than one or more of the other participants.

      2.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to engage in
gambling activities or in professional gambling for gain within the
town. (1997 Code §9.12.010; amd. Ord. 535, 10-5-2015)

   B.   Possession Of Gambling Device Or Record:

      1.   Except as provided in subsection B2 of this section, a person
who owns, manufactures, sells, transports, possesses or engages in any
transaction designed to affect the ownership, custody or use of a
gambling device or gambling record, knowing that it is to be used in
professional gambling shall be guilty of possession of a gambling device
or records.

      2.   The sale, transportation, manufacture and remanufacture of
gambling devices, including the acquisition of essential parts therefor
and the assembly of such parts, is permitted if such devices are sold,
transported, manufactured and remanufactured only for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce when such transportation is not
prohibited by any applicable foreign, state or federal law. Storage of
gambling devices is also permitted but only for purposes of
manufacturing, remanufacturing and transporting such devices in
interstate or foreign commerce when their transportation is not
prohibited. Such activities may be conducted only by persons who have
registered with the United States government pursuant to the provisions
of chapter 24 of title XV of the United States Code, as amended. Such
gambling devices shall not be openly displayed, except to legal buyers,
or sold for use in Colorado regardless of where purchased nor
manufactured, remanufactured or stored for purposes of manufacture,
remanufacture and transportation in violation of any applicable state or
federal law. For the purposes of this subsection, "legal buyer" means a
buyer who resides in another state or country which does not restrict
the possession of the specific gambling device in question. (1997 Code
§9.12.020)

   C.   Transmission And Receipt Of Gambling Information: It is unlawful
for any person to knowingly transmit or receive gambling information by
telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or other means, or knowingly to
install or maintain equipment for the transmission or receipt of
gambling information. (1997 Code §9.12.030)

6-5C-2: PUBLIC INDECENCY:

   A.   Any person who performs any of the following in a public place
or where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by members
of the public commits public indecency:

      1.   An act of sexual intercourse; or

      2.   A lewd exposure of an intimate part of the body, not
including the genitals, done with intent to arouse or to satisfy the
sexual desire of any person; or

      3.   A lewd fondling or caress of the body of another person.

   B.   "Intimate part" means the external genitalia or the perineum or
the anus or the buttocks or the pubes or the breast of any person. (Ord.
537, 10-5-2015)

6-5C-3: INDECENT EXPOSURE:

A person commits indecent exposure if he or she exposes his or her
genitals to the view of any person under circumstances in which such
conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm to the other person. (Ord.
537, 10-5-2015)

6-5C-4: WINDOW PEEPING:

It is unlawful for any person to trespass upon the property owned or
occupied by another in the town for the purpose of looking or peeping
into any window, door, skylight or other opening in a house, room,
building, or to loiter in a public street, alley, parking lot or other
public place for the purpose of wrongfully observing the action of the
occupants of such house, room or building. (1997 Code §9.12.060)

6-5C-5: DISSEMINATION OF OBSCENE MATERIALS:

   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:

   MATERIAL: Anything tangible that is capable of being used or adapted
to arouse interest, whether through the medium of reading, observation,
sound or in any other manner, but does not include an actual
three-dimensional obscene device.

   OBSCENE: Material or a performance that:

      1.   The average person, applying contemporary community
standards, would find that taken as a whole appeals to the prurient
interest in sex;

      2.   Depicts or describes:

         a.   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of
ultimate sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
sexual intercourse, sodomy and sexual bestiality; or

         b.   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of
masturbation, excretory functions, sadism, masochism, lewd exhibition of
the genitals, the male or female genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation or arousal, or covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state; and

      3.   Taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.

   OBSCENE DEVICE: A device including a dildo or artificial vagina,
designed or marketed as useful primarily for the stimulation of human
genital organs.

   PATENTLY OFFENSIVE: So offensive on its face as to affront current
community standards of tolerance.

   PERFORMANCE: A play, motion picture, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.

   PROMOTE: To manufacture, issue, sell, give, provide, lend, mail,
deliver, transfer, transmit, publish, distribute, circulate,
disseminate, present, exhibit or advertise, or to offer or agree to do
the same.

   PRURIENT INTEREST: A shameful or morbid interest.

   SIMULATED: The explicit depiction or description of any of the types
of conduct set forth under the definition of "obscene" set out in this
subsection, which creates the appearance of such conduct.

   WHOLESALE PROMOTE: To manufacture, issue, sell, provide, mail,
deliver, transfer, transmit, publish, distribute, circulate,
disseminate, or to offer or agree to do the same for purpose of resale.

   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful to disseminate obscene material
within the town limits, either wholesale or retail.

   C.   Severability: If any of the depictions or descriptions of sexual
conduct described in subsection A of this section are declared by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawfully included herein, this
declaration shall not invalidate this section as to other patently
offensive sexual conduct included herein. (1997 Code §9.12.070)

ARTICLE D. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY

SECTION:

6-5D-1: Theft Related Offenses; Concealment Of Goods

6-5D-2: Trespassing

6-5D-3: Injuring, Destroying Or Removing Property

6-5D-4: Deposits In Streets, Streams And Water Supply

6-5D-5: Littering On Public Property

6-5D-6: Truck Loads Causing Litter

6-5D-7: Lug Wheels Prohibited

6-5D-8: Throwing Advertisements On Public Ways, Grounds

6-5D-9: Obstructing Traffic

6-5D-10: Interfering With Use Of Streets Or Sidewalks

6-5D-11: Broken Glass, Dangerous Substances On Streets And Sidewalks

6-5D-1: THEFT RELATED OFFENSES; CONCEALMENT OF GOODS:

   A.   Theft:

      1.   It is unlawful for a person to commit theft within the town.
A person commits theft when he or she knowingly obtains or exercises
control over anything of value of another without authorization or by
threat or deception when the value of the thing is less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00), and:

         a.   Intends to deprive the other person permanently of the use
or benefit of the thing of value;

         b.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the thing of value in
such manner as to deprive the other person permanently of its use or
benefit;

         c.   Uses, conceals or abandons the thing of value, intending
that such use, concealment or abandonment will deprive the other person
permanently of its use and benefit; or

         d.   Demands any consideration to which he or she is not
legally entitled as a condition of restoring the thing of value to the
other person.

      2.   For the purposes of this subsection A, a "thing of value" is
that "of another" if anyone other than the defendant has a possessory or
proprietary interest therein.

   B.   Theft Of Rental Property:

      1.   It is unlawful for a person to commit theft of rental
property within the town. A person commits theft of rental property if
he or she:

         a.   Having lawfully obtained possession for temporary use of
the personal property of another, which is available only for hire,
fails to return the same within ten (10) days after actual written
notice has been given by or on behalf of the lessor and actually
received by the lessee. Such notice shall not be given until after the
expiration of the term of the original lease; and

         b.   The value of the property involved is less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00).

      2.   The provisions of this subsection B shall not apply to
unlawful occupancy of land or of a building.

      3.   For the purposes of this subsection B, "thing of value" is
that "of another" if anyone other than the defendant has a possessory or
proprietary interest therein.

   C.   Theft By Receiving: It is unlawful to commit theft by receiving
within the town. A person commits theft by receiving when he or she
receives, retains, loans money by pawn or pledge on, or disposes of
anything of value of another, knowing or believing that the thing of
value has been stolen, and when he or she intends to deprive the lawful
owner permanently of the use or benefit of the thing of value, where the
value of such thing is less than five hundred dollars ($500.00).

   D.   Concealment Of Goods:

      1.   If any person wilfully conceals unpurchased goods, wares, or
merchandise owned or held by and offered or displayed for sale by any
store or other mercantile establishment, whether the concealment be on
his or her own person or otherwise and whether on or off the premises of
said store or mercantile establishment, such concealment constitutes
prima facie evidence that the person intended to commit the crime of
theft.

      2.   If any person conceals upon his or her person or otherwise
carries away any unpurchased goods, wares or merchandise held or owned
by any store or mercantile establishment, the merchant or any employee
thereof or any peace officer, acting in good faith and upon probable
cause based upon reasonable grounds therefor, may detain and question
such person in a reasonable manner for the purpose of ascertaining
whether the person is guilty of theft. Such questioning of a person by a
merchant, merchant's employee or peace officer does not render the
merchant, merchant's employee or peace officer civilly or criminally
liable of slander, false arrest, false imprisonment, malicious
prosecution or unlawful detention. (Ord. 538, 10-5-2015)

6-5D-2: TRESPASSING:

   A.   Taking Down Fences Or Gates: It is unlawful for any person to
take down any fence or let down any bars or to open any gate in or on
the property of another without the consent of the owner, occupant or
person in charge thereof.

   B.   Entering Upon Premises Of Another Without Permission: It is
unlawful for any person without legal privilege to enter or remain upon
the premises of another or to fail or refuse to remove himself from the
premises when requested to leave by the owner, occupant or person having
lawful control thereof. (1997 Code §9.20.030)

6-5D-3: INJURING, DESTROYING OR REMOVING PROPERTY:

   A.   Public Property: It is unlawful for any person to either
wilfully, maliciously, wantonly, negligently or in any other manner
injure or destroy real property or improvements thereto, or movable or
personal property, within the town. (1997 Code §9.20.010)

   B.   Private Property: It is unlawful for any person to either
wilfully, maliciously or wantonly injure or destroy real property or
improvements thereto, or movable or personal property, belonging to any
person, corporation, partnership or association. (1997 Code §9.20.020)

   C.   Street Signs: It is unlawful for any person without proper
authorization to remove, deface, injure or destroy any street sign, or
sign erected or placed in or adjacent to any street indicating the name
of such street. (1997 Code §9.20.040)

   D.   Posters: It is unlawful for any person to either wilfully,
maliciously, wantonly, negligently, or in any other manner tear down,
deface or cover up any posted advertisement or bill of any person, firm
or corporation when the same is posted or put in harmony with the
provisions of this chapter and other ordinances of the town. (1997 Code
§9.20.050)

6-5D-4: DEPOSITS IN STREETS, STREAMS AND WATER SUPPLY:

It is unlawful to throw or deposit or cause or permit to be thrown or
deposited, any offal composed of animal or vegetable substance, or both,
any dead animal, excrement, garbage or other offensive matter whatever,
upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk or public grounds. No person
shall, in the town, throw or deposit or cause or permit to be thrown or
deposited, anything specified in any foregoing part of this section, or
any other substance that would tend to have a polluting effect, into the
water of any stream, ditch, pond, well, cistern, slough or other body of
water, whether artificially or naturally created, or so near any such
place as to be liable to pollute the water. (1997 Code §9.20.060)

6-5D-5: LITTERING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:

   A.   Throwing Trash: It is unlawful to throw or deposit in any
street, alley, sidewalk or public ground, in the town, any paper, old
clothes, cloth of any kind, boots, shoes, hats, leather, hair, grass,
junk cars, straw or hay, trash or any other thing, on public streets or
alleys, except in public receptacles and authorized private receptacles.

   B.   Throwing Litter From Vehicle: It is unlawful for any person,
while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, to throw or deposit litter
upon any street or other public place within the town, or upon private
property. (1997 Code §9.20.070)

6-5D-6: TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER:

   A.   Litter Blowing From Vehicle: No person shall drive or move any
truck or other vehicle within the town unless such vehicle is
constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter from
being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public place.

   B.   Garbage Transport Vehicles: Every cart or vehicle used to
transport manure, garbage, swill or offal on any highway in the town
shall be fitted with a substantial tight box thereon, so that no portion
of such filth will be scattered or thrown onto such highway. (Ord. 539,
10-5-2015)

6-5D-7: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED:

It is unlawful for any vehicles injurious to pavement to be permitted
upon public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicles shall
first plank and protect such streets from damage. (1997 Code §9.20.090)

6-5D-8: THROWING ADVERTISEMENTS ON PUBLIC WAYS, GROUNDS:

It is unlawful for any person to throw any posters, dodgers, circulars,
bills, letters, envelopes, samples or devices upon any of the streets,
alleys, parks or other public grounds of the town. (1997 Code §9.20.100)

6-5D-9: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:

It is unlawful for any person to obstruct in any manner any sidewalk,
public highway, street or alley in the town, or for the purpose of
annoyance or mischief, to place in any doorway or driveway, or on any
sidewalk, public highway, street or alley in the town any box, barrel,
cask or other thing. (1997 Code §9.20.110)

6-5D-10: INTERFERING WITH USE OF STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:

It is unlawful for any person, alone or in a group or assemblage of
persons, whose standing, remaining or congregation on any public
highway, street, alley or sidewalk in the town to obstruct, interfere
with or prevent the free and unobstructed and reasonable use of that
public highway, street, alley or sidewalk by any other person, to fail
or refuse to yield to the reasonable use or passage of any other person
on that public highway, street, alley or sidewalk, or to fail or refuse
to move on, disperse or cease such obstruction or interference
immediately upon being so ordered by any police officer of the town or
other authorized peace officer. (1997 Code §9.20.120)

6-5D-11: BROKEN GLASS, DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:

It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit or cause to be thrown
or deposited on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way, any
broken glass, broken crockery, nails or any other dangerous substance.
(1997 Code §9.20.130)

CHAPTER 6
MINORS

SECTION:

6-6-1: Sale Of Beer To Minors; Sign Posted

6-6-2: Minors In Places That Sell Alcoholic Beverages

6-6-3: Minors In Possession

6-6-4: False Statement And False Credentials

6-6-5: Purchase Of Prohibited Items By Others

6-6-6: Selling Liquor Near Schools

6-6-7: Loitering And Other Acts In Or About Schools

6-6-8: Curfew; Restrictive Hours; Exceptions

6-6-9: Parent Or Guardian Aiding, Abetting

6-6-10: Encouraging Delinquency

6-6-11: Illegal Possession Or Consumption Of Tobacco Products and
Electronic Smoking Devices By Underage Persons

6-6-12: Parents And Guardians Of Minors Responsible For Court
Appearances And Compliance With Orders Of Municipal Court

6-6-1: SALE OF BEER TO MINORS; SIGN POSTED:

   A.   Prohibited Act: It is unlawful for any person to sell, serve,
give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver, or permit the sale, serving,
giving or procuring of any fermented malt beverage (3.2 beer) to or for
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.

   B.   Posting Of Sign: It is the duty of the person who is the
proprietor or keeper of a place of business which sells, serves or
disposes of fermented malt beverages (3.2 beer) to post conspicuously in
his place of business the following described sign: "MINORS UNDER THE
AGE OF TWENTY ONE (21) YEARS NOT SERVED HERE". Failure to so post such
sign will constitute an unlawful act. (1997 Code § 9.24.010)

6-6-2: MINORS IN PLACES THAT SELL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:

   A.   Prohibited Act: It is unlawful for any person who is the
provider or keeper of any establishment whose primary business is the
sale of alcoholic beverages, or beer, or any other fermented malt
beverages to employ or permit any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to frequent or be in or about such place unless accompanied
by a parent, or to drink any intoxicating liquors or beer or any other
fermented malt beverage in or about the same, or to engage or
participate in any game of billiards or any game, bet or wager with any
cards or any other gambling device or any other game whatsoever in or
about such place.

   B.   Posting Of Sign: It is the duty of any person who is the
proprietor or keeper of an establishment licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages to post conspicuously in his place of business the following
described sign: "MINORS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY ONE (21) YEARS NOT
ALLOWED UNLESS ACCOMPANIED BY PARENT". Failure to so post such sign will
constitute an unlawful act. (1997 Code § 9.24.020)

6-6-3: MINORS IN POSSESSION:

   A.   Possession Prohibited: Any person under twenty one (21) years of
age who possesses or consumes ethyl alcohol anywhere within the Town
commits illegal possession or consumption of ethyl alcohol by an
underage person. Illegal possession or consumption of ethyl alcohol by
an underage person is a strict liability offense. "Possession" of ethyl
alcohol by an underage person means that a minor has or holds any amount
of ethyl alcohol anywhere on his person, that a minor owns or has
custody of ethyl alcohol, or that a minor has ethyl alcohol within his
immediate presence and control.

   B.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense to the
offenses described in this section that the ethyl alcohol was possessed
or consumed by a person under twenty one (21) years of age under the
following circumstances:

      1.   While such person was legally upon private property with the
knowledge and consent of the owner or legal possessor of such private
property and the ethyl alcohol was possessed or consumed with the
consent of his parent or legal guardian who was present during such
possession or consumption.

      2.   When the existence of ethyl alcohol in a person's body was
due solely to the ingestion of a confectionery which contained ethyl
alcohol within the limits prescribed by Colorado Revised Statutes
section 25-5-410(1)(i)(II); medicines ingested solely for medicinal or
hygienic purposes; or solely from the ingestion of a beverage which
contained less than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of ethyl alcohol by
weight.

      3.   The person is a student who:

         a.   Tastes but does not imbibe an alcohol beverage only while
under the direct supervision of an instructor who is at least twenty one
(21) years of age and employed by a postsecondary school;

         b.   Is enrolled in a university or a postsecondary school
accredited or certified by an agency recognized by the United States
department of education, a nationally recognized accrediting agency or
association, or the "private occupational education act of 1981",
Colorado Revised Statutes title 12, article 59;

         c.   Is participating in a culinary arts, food service, or
restaurant management degree program; and

         d.   Tastes but does not imbibe the alcohol beverage for
instructional purposes as a part of a required course in which the
alcohol beverage, except the portion the student tastes, remains under
the control of the instructor.

   C.   Religious Purposes: The possession or consumption of ethyl
alcohol shall not constitute a violation of this section if such
possession or consumption takes place for religious purposes protected
by the first amendment to the United States constitution.

   D.   Prima Facie Evidence Of Violation: Prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section shall consist of:

      1.   Evidence that the defendant was under the age of twenty one
(21) years and possessed or consumed ethyl alcohol anywhere within the
town; or

      2.   Evidence that the defendant was under the age of twenty one
(21) years and manifested any of the characteristics commonly associated
with ethyl alcohol intoxication or impairment while present anywhere
within the town.

   E.   Label As Evidence: During any trial for a violation of this
section, any bottle, can, or any other container with labeling
indicating the contents of such bottle, can, or container shall be
admissible into evidence, and the information contained on any label on
such bottle, can, or other container shall be admissible into evidence
and shall not constitute hearsay. A judge or jury may consider the
information upon such label in determining whether the contents of the
bottle, can, or other container were composed in whole or in part of
ethyl alcohol. A label that identifies the contents of any bottle, can,
or other container as "beer", "ale", "malt beverage", "fermented malt
beverage", "malt liquor", "wine", "champagne", "whiskey" or "whisky",
"gin", "vodka", "tequila", "schnapps", "brandy", "cognac", "liqueur",
"cordial", "alcohol", or "liquor" shall constitute prima facie evidence
that the contents of the bottle, can, or other container was composed in
whole or in part of ethyl alcohol.

   F.   Alcohol Tests Admissible At Trial: The qualitative result of an
alcohol test or tests shall be admissible at the trial of any person
charged with a violation of this section upon a showing that the device
or devices used to conduct such test or tests have been approved as
accurate in detecting alcohol by the executive director of the Colorado
department of public health and environment (CDPHE).

   G.   Certification Records: Official records of the CDPHE relating to
the certification of breath test instruments, certification of operators
and operator instructors of breath test instruments, certification of
standard solutions, and certification of laboratories shall be official
records of the state. Copies of such records, attested by the executive
director of the CDPHE or his deputy and accompanied by a certificate
bearing the official seal for the CDPHE, that state that the executive
director of the CDPHE has custody of such records, shall be admissible
in the municipal court and shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
information contained in the records. The official seal of the CDPHE may
consist of a rubber stamp or an image producing a facsimile of the seal
stamped upon the document.

   H.   Accuracy Of Testing Devices: In any proceeding in the municipal
court concerning a violation of this section, the court shall take
judicial notice of methods of testing a person's blood, breath, saliva,
or urine for the presence of alcohol and of the design and operation of
devices certified by the CDPHE for testing a person's blood, breath,
saliva, or urine for the presence of alcohol. This provision shall not
prevent the necessity of establishing during a trial that the testing
devices were working properly and that the testing devices were properly
operated. Nothing shall preclude a defendant from offering evidence
concerning the accuracy of testing devices.

   I.   Parental Consent Allowed; Establishment Prohibited: A parent or
legal guardian of a person under twenty one (21) years of age or any
natural person who has the permission of such parent or legal guardian
may give or permit the possession and consumption of ethyl alcohol to or
by a person under the age of twenty one (21) years under the conditions
described in subsection B1 of this section. This shall not be construed
to permit any establishment which is or is required to be licensed
pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes title 12, articles 46, 47 or 48,
or any members, employees, or occupants of any such establishment to
give, provide, make available, or sell ethyl alcohol to a person under
twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. 493, 9-1-2009)

6-6-4: FALSE STATEMENT AND FALSE CREDENTIALS:

It is unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of age to make
false statements or to furnish, present or exhibit any fictitious or
false registration card, identification card, or note or other document
for any unlawful purpose, or to furnish, present or exhibit such
document or documents issued to a person other than the one presenting
the same for the purpose of gaining admission to prohibited places or
for the purpose of procuring the sale, gift or delivery of prohibited
articles, including beer, liquor, wine or fermented malt beverages (3.2
beer). (1997 Code § 9.24.040)

6-6-5: PURCHASE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS BY OTHERS:

   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to engage or utilize the services of any other person, whether for
remuneration or not, to procure any article which the minor himself is
forbidden by law to purchase.

   B.   It is unlawful for any person, whether for remuneration or not,
to procure for any person under twenty one (21) years of age any article
which the person is forbidden by law to purchase. (1997 Code § 9.24.050)

6-6-6: SELLING LIQUOR NEAR SCHOOLS:

It is unlawful to sell, offer or expose for sale or gift, beer, or any
vinous, spirituous or malt liquors within a distance of five hundred
feet (500') from any private, public or parochial school, said distance
to be computed by direct measurement from the nearest property lines;
provided, however that this prohibition shall not affect the rights of
any person, firm or corporation now holding a lawful permit or license
to conduct such business within the restricted area established nor
shall this prohibition prevent the renewal upon the expiration thereof
of any license in effect at this time authorizing such business within
the restricted area established by this section. (1997 Code § 9.24.060)

6-6-7: LOITERING AND OTHER ACTS IN OR ABOUT SCHOOLS:

It is unlawful for any person to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play
in, about or on any public, private or parochial school, college or
seminary grounds, or buildings, either on foot or in or on any vehicle,
without having some lawful business therein or thereabout, or in
connection with such school or the employees thereof; or for any person
to:

   A.   Annoy, disturb or otherwise prevent the orderly conduct of
classes and activities of such school.

   B.   Annoy, disturb, assault or molest any student or employee of any
such school, college or seminary while in any such school building or on
any school grounds.

   C.   Conduct himself in a lewd, wanton or lascivious manner in speech
or behavior in or about any school building or school grounds.

   D.   Park or move a vehicle in the immediate vicinity of, or on the
grounds of, any such school, college or seminary for the purpose of
annoying or molesting the students or employees thereof; or in an effort
to induce, entice or invite students into such vehicles for immoral
purposes. (1997 Code § 9.24.070)

6-6-8: CURFEW; RESTRICTIVE HOURS; EXCEPTIONS:

   A.   Parents' Responsibility: It is unlawful for any parent, guardian
or other person having care or custody of any child under the age of
eighteen (18) years to allow or permit any such child to be or remain
upon any public street, sidewalk, alley or public park within the town
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. unless the child is accompanied by his or her parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor;
or when the minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his parent or
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor;
or when the minor is returning directly home from a meeting,
entertainment, recreational activity or dance. (1997 Code § 9.24.080)

   B.   Child's Responsibility: It is unlawful for any child under the
age of eighteen (18) years to be or remain on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or public park within the Town between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., unless the
child is accompanied by the parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor; or when the minor is upon an
emergency errand directed by his parent or guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor; or when the minor is
returning directly home from a meeting, entertainment, recreational
activity, or dance. (1997 Code § 9.24.090)

6-6-9: PARENT OR GUARDIAN AIDING, ABETTING:

It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any minor child or
children to aid, abet or encourage in or to approve, encourage, allow,
permit, tolerate or consent to the violation by any minor child or
children of any provision of this chapter or any ordinances of the Town.
(1997 Code § 9.24.100)

6-6-10: ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY:

It is unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect, to encourage, aid
or cause a child to come within the purview of the juvenile authorities,
and it shall likewise be unlawful for any person, after notice that a
driver's license of any child has been suspended or revoked, to permit
such child to operate a motor vehicle during the period that such
driver's license is suspended. (1997 Code § 9.24.110)

6-6-11: ILLEGAL POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND
ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICES BY UNDERAGE PERSONS:

It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
possess or consume tobacco products and to possess or use any Electronic
Smoking Devices within the Town of Akron.

 

  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE:   Any device that when activated emits a vapor, aerosol, or smoke or can be used to deliver nicotine or any other substance to the person inhaling from the device, including, but not limited to e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens, e-hookahs, inhalant delivery systems or any other similar product by any other name or descriptor. An electronic smoking device includesany component, part or accessory of such device whether or not sold separately, regardless of nicotine content or any other substance intended to be vaporized or aerosolized for human inhalation during the use of the device.
  TOBACCO PRODUCT:             Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco or synthetic tobacco whether or not said product contains nicotine that is intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including, but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff, as well as any Electronic Smoking Device. (Ord. 556, 4-1-2019)
  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

6-6-12: PARENTS AND GUARDIANS OF MINORS RESPONSIBLE FOR COURT
APPEARANCES AND COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS OF MUNICIPAL COURT:

   A.   When a summons, complaint or other Municipal Court order of any
type is issued to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, then
notice of the issuance of the summons, complaint or other order shall be
provided to the parent or guardian of the minor by personal service or
by mailing a notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, at
least ten (10) days prior to the scheduled court appearance. The notice
shall include the alleged violation, date of violation and the date,
time and place of the scheduled court appearance, and shall provide
notice that the parent or guardian is required to appear in Municipal
Court on the specified date and time with the minor. The parent or
guardian of any minor who is required to appear in Municipal Court shall
have the duty to make sure and see to it that the minor appears as
ordered and it shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to fail to
appear at each and every court appearance with the minor. The Municipal
Judge, in addition to any other penalty, may issue a warrant for the
arrest of any parent, guardian or minor who fails to appear as provided
herein or may find the parent or guardian guilty of contempt of court,
if notice has been given to the parent or guardian by personal service
or by certified mail, return receipt requested.

   B.   When a minor, as a result of the violation of any section of
this Code, is sentenced or otherwise ordered by the Municipal Judge to
pay a fine, court costs, restitution or any other fee or cost, is
sentenced or otherwise ordered to perform useful public service (UPS),
attend counseling, attend classes or perform any other action, then the
parent or guardian of the minor shall be jointly responsible for payment
of any amounts ordered to be paid and shall have a duty to make sure and
see to it that the minor defendant performs any ordered UPS or other
action, and the failure of any parent or guardian to make sure and see
to it that the minor defendant complies with any order of the Municipal
Court shall be a separate offense for which a summons and complaint may
be issued, or which may be punishable as contempt of court.

   C.   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any
parent or guardian who demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Municipal
Judge that the minor defendant is emancipated, which shall mean any
minor who is over the age of sixteen (16) and under the age of eighteen
(18) years old and who does not reside with the parent or guardian and
who is solely responsible for his or her own support, or who is married
or who is in the military service of the United States. (Ord. 551,
5-7-2018)

CHAPTER 7
ANIMAL CONTROL

SECTION:

6-7-1: Ownership Presumed

6-7-2: Keeping Of Certain Animals Prohibited

6-7-3: Fowl And Rabbits Restrained

6-7-3-5: Fowl And Rabbits Limitations

6-7-4: Premises Kept Clean

6-7-5: Disposal Of Pet Solid Waste

6-7-6: Running At Large; Confinement; Costs

6-7-7: Sale Of Animals; Procedure

6-7-8: Grazing Upon Public Thoroughfares

6-7-9: Hitching Animals To Public And Private Property

6-7-10: Cruelty To Animals

6-7-11: Abandonment Of Animals

6-7-12: Keeping Place For Fighting Animals

6-7-13: Supply Of Food To Enclosed Animals

6-7-14: Poisoning Domesticated Animals

6-7-15: Treatment Of Song And Insectivorous Birds

6-7-16: Special Use Permit

6-7-1: OWNERSHIP PRESUMED:

Any animal or other pet residing in a household comprised of adult(s)
and minors shall be presumed to be in the ownership or possession of the
adult(s) having control of the premises of that household. (1997 Code §
6.04.010)

6-7-2: KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED:

   A.   Certain Animals Prohibited; Exceptions: It is unlawful to keep,
harbor, own or in any way possess, within the corporate limits of the
town, the following:

      1.   Any warm blooded, carnivorous or omnivorous wild or exotic
animal, including, but not limited to, nonhuman primates, raccoons,
skunks, foxes, and wild and exotic cats, but excluding fowl, ferrets and
small rodents used for laboratory purposes.

      2.   Any animal, insect or snake having poisonous bites or stings.

      3.   Any snake. (1997 Code § 6.04.020)

   B.   Hogs, Sheep And Goats Prohibited; Exception: Except as provided
in ranchette zoning areas (title 11, chapter 5, article G of this code),
it is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the corporate
limits of the town any hogs, pigs, swine, sheep or goats. (Ord. 541,
11-2-2015)

   C.   Cattle And Horses Prohibited In Certain Area: It is unlawful for
any person to herd or harbor any cattle, horses or other livestock
within the territory in the town as herein described:

Beginning at a point along the west line of the limits of the Town of
Akron, which is due west of the north line of Block Eight of the Hueske
Addition to the Town of Akron, running thence east to the northeast
corner of Block Nine of the Hueske Addition, thence south to Eighth
Street, thence east along Eighth Street to Elm Street, thence south to
Fourth Street, thence east to the town limits, thence south to the town
limits, thence west along the north side of the right of way of the
Burlington Northern Railroad to the intersection of Custer Street and
North Railway Street, thence north along Custer Street to Fourth Street,
thence west along Fourth Street to the town limits, thence north along
the west town limits to the point of beginning.

(1997 Code § 6.04.020)

6-7-3: FOWL AND RABBITS RESTRAINED:

It is unlawful for any person who owns, harbors or keeps within the
corporate limits any chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or other domestic
fowl, or any hare or rabbits, to fail to keep the same securely enclosed
in a pen or building, or to permit the same to run at large or to go
upon the premises of another. (1997 Code § 6.04.030)

6-7-3-5: FOWL AND RABBITS LIMITATIONS:

Except as provided in ranchette zoning areas (title 11, chapter 5,
article G of this code) and industrial district zoning areas (title 11,
chapter 5, article F of this code), no person shall keep, in aggregate,
more than twenty (20) chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or other domestic
fowl, or any hare or rabbits. Roosters shall not be permitted within the
town of Akron. (Ord. 543, 9-6-2016)

6-7-4: PREMISES KEPT CLEAN:

Any person who owns or controls any lot, barn, stable, shed, building or
other place where domestic fowl or animals are kept shall keep the
building and premises in a clean and sanitary condition and shall remove
all manure from the premises at least once each week. (1997 Code §
6.04.040)

6-7-5: DISPOSAL OF PET SOLID WASTE:

   A.   Purpose: This section establishes requirements for the proper
disposal of pet solid waste within the town so as to protect public
health, safety and welfare, and to prescribe penalties for failure to
comply.

   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context
otherwise requires, the following terms have the following meanings:

    IMMEDIATE: That the pet solid waste is removed at once, without
delay.

   OWNER/KEEPER: Any person who shall possess, maintain, have control
of, house, or harbor any pet or otherwise have custody of any pet,
whether such person is the registered owner of such pet.

   PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association, or political subdivision subject to the municipal
jurisdiction of the town of Akron, Colorado.

   PET: A domesticated animal, including a disability assistance animal,
kept for amusement, assistance, or companionship.

   PET SOLID WASTE: Waste matter expelled from the bowels of the pet,
i.e., excrement.

   PROPER DISPOSAL: Placement in a designated waste receptacle or other
suitable container and discarded in a refuse container which is
regularly emptied by the town of Akron, Colorado, or some other refuse
collector or disposal into a system designed to convey domestic sewage
for proper treatment and disposal.

   C.   Disposal Required: All pet owners and keepers are required to
immediately and properly dispose of their pet's solid waste deposited on
any property, public or private, including, but not limited to, public
streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks, or any other public or private
grounds within the town not owned or possessed by that person.

   D.   Disability Assistance Animals: Any owner or keeper who requires
the use of a disability assistance animal shall also comply with the
provisions of this section while such animal is being used for that
purpose.

   E.   Penalty: Any person who is found to be in violation of the
provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed
fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first violation and not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for subsequent violations within any calendar
year. (Ord. 501, 6-6-2011)

6-7-6: RUNNING AT LARGE; CONFINEMENT; COSTS:

   A.   Owner Or Possessor Responsibility: It is unlawful for any owner
and/or possessor of any animal to suffer or permit such animal to be at
large as defined in this section. Violations of this section are subject
to citation, and the animal at large is subject to impoundment as
authorized by this section.

   B.   Animals Other Than Dogs:

      1.   Animals, other than dogs, shall be considered at large if an
animal is off the premises of its owner and/or possessor while not under
the physical restraint of a person capable of controlling the animal.
This includes any animal which is tethered, leashed or otherwise present
on property which is not owned or controlled by the owner and/or
possessor of the animal without the permission of the owner or occupant
thereof.

      2.   An animal shall not be considered at large if it is on the
premises of another person with the consent of the owner or occupant
thereof.

   C.   Confinement By Police; Payment Of Costs: If any animal shall be
found running at large contrary to the provisions of this section, it is
made the duty of the chief of police to take up and confine the same in
a secure place or other place provided for that purpose and such animal
taken up and confined shall not be released until the owner or person
entitled to the possession thereof shall pay to the officer having such
animals in his keeping such fees as are determined by the board of
trustees by resolution for the taking up of such animal together with a
daily fee for the care of the animal for each and every day such animal
shall be kept by the officer aforesaid unless otherwise provided in this
code and the same shall be turned in to the town treasurer. (Ord. 526,
8-3-2015)

6-7-7: SALE OF ANIMALS; PROCEDURE:

   A.   Nonpayment Of Charges; Notice Of Sale; Redemption Of Animal:

      1.   If the owner or person entitled to the possession of an
animal does not pay the charges and take it away within five (5) days
from the time it is taken into custody, the chief of police may sell
such animal at public auction after having given at least five (5) days'
notice of the time and place of such sale by publishing or by posting
the notice in five (5) public places in the town as well as serving a
copy of the notice upon the owner or possessor of the animal, if known.

      2.   Such animal may be redeemed at any time before the date of
sale by payment to the officer in charge or his assistant of any fees,
expenses and charges herein provided.

   B.   Disposition Of Money From Sale: In case an animal sold pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter is sold for more than is sufficient to
pay the fees and charges aforesaid, such expenses shall, by the officer
or his assistant making the sale, be deposited with the town clerk, who
shall pay such excess, upon order of the board of trustees to the owner
of such animal or animals or to the person entitled to the possession of
the same upon claim and proper proof within one year from date of the
sale.

   C.   Disposal Of Infected Animal: In the event such animal is
infected or cannot be sold, it may be disposed of in the manner provided
for unclaimed or infected dogs. (1997 Code § 6.04.070)

6-7-8: GRAZING UPON PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES:

It is unlawful for any person to picket, lead or hold any horse, cattle
or other livestock on or along any street, sidewalk or alley in the town
in such a manner that any such animal may graze upon the grass, herbage,
or trees growing upon or along any of the streets, sidewalks or alleys;
for any person to picket, lead or hold any horse, cattle or other
livestock in such a manner as to obstruct or impede the full use of the
streets, sidewalks or alleys. (1997 Code § 6.04.080)

6-7-9: HITCHING ANIMALS TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY:

It is unlawful for any person to hitch a horse or any other animal to
any ornamental fence or railing, tree or bush, whether private or
public, without the permission of the owner thereof. It is unlawful for
any person to hitch any such animal to any lamppost or fire hydrant of
the town. (1997 Code § 6.04.090)

6-7-10: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:

   A.   Maltreatment: It is unlawful for any person to unnecessarily
beat, injure or maltreat any animal. (1997 Code § 6.04.050)

   B.   Cruelty: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork, torture, deprive
of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or kill needlessly or to
carry or transport in any vehicle or otherwise in a cruel and inhuman
manner, any animal or to cause any of these acts to be done. (1997 Code
§ 9.28.010)

   C.   Starvation: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
having charge or custody of any animal to fail to provide it with proper
food, drink and protection from weather, or to cause any of these acts
to be done. (1997 Code § 9.28.020)

6-7-11: ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS:

It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to abandon any
animal, or to cause such to be done. (1997 Code § 9.28.030)

6-7-12: KEEPING PLACE FOR FIGHTING ANIMALS:

It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep or cause to
be kept any place where any fowl or any animals are suffered to fight
upon exhibition, or for sport upon any wager. (1997 Code § 9.28.040)

6-7-13: SUPPLY OF FOOD TO ENCLOSED ANIMALS:

In case any animal shall be at any time enclosed or confined and shall
continue to be without necessary food or water more than twelve (12)
consecutive hours, it shall be lawful for any person, from time to time
and as often as it shall be necessary, to enter into or upon any such
enclosure in which any such animal shall be confined and supply it with
necessary food and water so long as it shall remain so confined. Such
person shall not be liable to any action for such entry, and the
reasonable cost of such feed and water may be collected by him from the
owner of such animal. (1997 Code § 9.28.050)

6-7-14: POISONING DOMESTICATED ANIMALS:

It is unlawful for any person to poison any dog or to distribute poison
in any manner whatsoever with the intent or for the purpose of poisoning
any domesticated animals. (1997 Code § 9.28.060)

6-7-15: TREATMENT OF SONG AND INSECTIVOROUS BIRDS:

It is unlawful for any person at any time within the corporate limits of
the town to frighten, shoot at, wound, kill, take, capture, ensnare, net
trap or in any other manner molest or injure any robin, lark,
whippoorwill, finch, sparrow, thrush, wren, martin swallow, snowbird,
bobolink, red winged blackbird, crow, raven, oriole, kingbird,
mockingbird, song sparrow, or other songbird or insectivorous bird; or
in any manner molest or injure the nest eggs of young of any such bird,
or have in possession the nest, eggs, young or body of such bird. (1997
Code § 9.28.070)

6-7-16: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:

   A.   An individual desiring to keep, harbor, or possess animals
prohibited under this Chapter 7 of Article 6 of the Akron Municipal
Code, or desiring to keep, harbor, or possess animals in excess of the
numbers allowed under this Chapter 7 of Article 6 of the Akron Municipal
Code may apply to the Board of Trustees for a Special Use Permit the
possession of such animals within the Town of Akron.

   B.   Such individual shall submit an Application for Special Use
Permit on the form prescribed by the Board of Trustees and pay a
non-refundable application fee in the amount the Board of Trustees may
determine from time to time. The Application for Special Use Permit
shall contain the following information:

      1.   The applicant's name, address, and contact information.

      2.   The address at which the animals will be kept.

      3.   The number of and type of animals for which the applicant is
seeking a special use permit. The applicant shall provide a reasonably
sufficient description of each animal, including breed, age, name, and
whether such animal has been spayed or neutered.

      4.   A description of the premises at which the animals will be
stored, including the nature of any fencing or enclosures, and whether
the animals will be kept indoors or outdoors.

      5.   The applicant must provide a copy of the completed
Application for Special Use Permit to all neighbors located within 300
feet of the location at which the animals will be kept within seven days
of filing the Application for Special Use Permit with the Town of Akron.

   C.   If approved by the Board of Trustees in accordance with this
section applicants may be permitted to keep, harbor, or possess up to
five (5) Animal Units on a minimum of two (2) contiguous acres of
property. In no event shall the Board of Trustees grant a Special Use
Permit authorizing keeping, harboring, or maintaining greater than five
(5) Animals Units at any property. Animal Units shall be defined as
follows:

  ------ --------------
  TYPE   ANIMAL UNITS
  ------ --------------

TYPE

ANIMAL UNITS

Cattle

   Any age

1.00

Equine

   Horse

1.00

   Donkey

0.66

   Miniature Horse

0.33

Sheep

   Any age

0.33

Goats

   All breads and ages

0.33

Swine

   Hog

0.33

Elk

   Any age

1.00

Buffalo

   Any age

1.33

Llamas and Alpacas

   Any age

0.50

Fowl, Game Birds, Other Small Animals

   Ostriches, emus, rheas

0.50

   Rabbits

0.10

   Mature Chickens, Turkeys, Geese, Ducks

0.10

 

   D.   No permit shall be issued hereunder for any Residentially or
Ranchette-zoned property unless the applicant demonstrates that the
keeping, harboring, or possessing of animals on such property will be
secondary or incidental to an    allowed primary use for such property.

   E.   The Board of Trustees shall have the sole and exclusive
discretion to grant or deny any Special Use Permit sought under this
provision. The Board of Trustees shall also have the sole and exclusive
discretion to revoke any Special Use Permit issued hereunder.

   F.   Persons who have obtained current Special Use Permit in
accordance with this section shall not be in violation of the general
provisions of this chapter prohibiting the animals authorized by the
Special Use Permit. (Ord. 558, 5-6-2019; amd. Ord. 561, 10-7-2019)

ARTICLE A. DOGS

SECTION:

6-7A-1: Definitions

6-7A-2: Licensing Requirements; Fees

6-7A-3: License Tag Requirements

6-7A-4: Rabies Vaccination Required

6-7A-5: Unlawful Ownership Of Dangerous Dog

6-7A-6: Declaration As Dangerous Dog (Rep. by Ord. 567, 6-1-2020)

6-7A-7: Running At Large; Confinement

6-7A-8: Impoundment, Redemption And Disposal

6-7A-9: Interference With Dogcatcher Or Police Officer

6-7A-10: Instigating Or Encouraging Dogfights

6-7A-11: Confinement Or Muzzling Of Dogs During Rabies Danger

6-7A-12: Barking, Howling And Noisemaking

6-7A-13: Female Dogs In Heat

6-7A-14: Notice Or Knowledge Of Violation; Prosecution

6-7A-1: DEFINITIONS:

For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:

DANGEROUS DOG:

   A.   Any dog with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack,
unprovoked, to cause injury to, or to otherwise threaten the safety of
human beings or domestic animals; any dog that, without provocation,
attacks or bites, or has attacked or bitten, a human being or domestic
animal; any dog owned or harbored primarily, or in part, for the purpose
of dogfighting or any dog trained for dogfighting; or any dog which has
been found to be dangerous by the municipal court or found by any other
court of competent jurisdiction to be dangerous.

   B.   "Dangerous dog" also means any dog which, because of its
aggressive nature, training, or characteristic behavior, is capable of
inflicting serious physical harm or death to humans, and which would
constitute a danger to human life or property if it were not properly
kept; or any dog which, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a human
being or domestic animal in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of
attack on public or private property.

DOG: Any dog, bitch or whelp over the age of three (3) months.

OWNER: Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or other entity
possessing, harboring, or having the care or custody, whether
temporarily or permanently, of a dog.

POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that, when unprovoked: a) inflicts
bites on a human or a domestic animal on either public or private
property; b) chases or approaches a person upon the streets, sidewalks
or any public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of
attack; or c) has any known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked or cause injury or otherwise threaten the safety of
humans or domestic animals.

UNCONFINED: A dangerous dog is "unconfined" if such dog is not securely
confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed or locked pen or
structure upon the premises of the owner of such dog. Such pen or
structure must have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or
structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded
in the ground no less than one foot (1'). (1997 Code §6.08.010; amd.
Ord. 509, 5-6-2013)

6-7A-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:

   A.   License Required: The owner, possessor or keeper of any dog
within the town shall secure a license for such dog from the town clerk
within the later of thirty (30) days after the dog reaches the age of
three (3) months or thirty (30) days after becoming such residents to
secure a required license hereunder. (1997 Code § 6.08.020)

   B.   Fees And Term: The license fees for dogs within the town shall
be determined from time to time by the board of trustees by resolution,
payable for the issuance of such license, which license shall be valid
for the effective period of the rabies vaccination required below. No
household shall keep or maintain more than three (3) dogs.

   C.   Application; Rabies Vaccination Required: Upon application for a
dog license, the applicant shall exhibit to the town clerk a certificate
from a licensed veterinarian that the dog has been inoculated against
rabies as required by this section. All applications for licenses shall
be made on forms provided by the town clerk. (1997 Code § 6.08.060; amd.
Ord. 540, 11-2-2015; Ord. 570, 1-4-2021)

6-7A-3: LICENSE TAG REQUIREMENTS:

   A.   Issuance: It shall be the duty of the town clerk to deliver or
cause to be delivered to each person making application for a license,
paying the license fee provided for in this article and presenting the
certificate of inoculation required by this article a dog tag for each
dog licensed and inoculated. (1997 Code §6.08.070)

   B.   Possession: Only those persons who own, possess or keep a dog
duly licensed and inoculated in accordance with the provisions of this
article shall be permitted to possess a dog tag as herein provided for.
(1997 Code §6.08.080)

   C.   Description: The dog tag provided for in this article shall be
of such size, shape, color and materials as may be deemed expedient and
suitable by the town clerk; provided, however, that the color thereof
shall be changed each year. Such tag shall contain a number stamped
thereon in numerical order beginning with number one and shall also
indicate the year for which the same is issued and the word "Akron".
(1997 Code §6.08.090)

   D.   Attachment To Collar Or Harness: Every owner, possessor or
keeper of a dog within the town shall place upon such dog a collar or
harness made of durable material to which the dog tag herein provided
for shall be attached. (1997 Code §6.08.100)

   E.   Worn Only By Licensed Dog: No person shall affix to the collar
or harness of any dog or permit to remain so affixed a tag evidencing
licensing and rabies inoculation except the dog tag issued to that dog
at the time of issuance of its license. (1997 Code §6.08.110)

   F.   Records, Duplicates And Transfers: The town clerk shall keep a
record of the date of issue of each dog tag provided for in this article
and the person to whom such tag is issued and the number thereof. If the
dog tag herein provided for is lost or destroyed, a duplicate tag may be
obtained from the town clerk upon the payment fee of fifty cents
($0.50). In the event that the ownership or possession of a dog is
changed, a new dog tag must be obtained and such new dog tag shall be
issued by the town clerk upon proof being presented that the inoculation
and licensing requirements of this section have been complied with and
upon the payment of the fee of fifty cents ($0.50). (1997 Code
§6.08.120)

6-7A-4: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:

   A.   Time For Inoculation: The owner, possessor or keeper of every
dog within the town shall have such dog inoculated against rabies
between January 1 and March 1 of each year. Dogs purchased, obtained or
otherwise acquired or brought into the town subsequent to March 1 in any
calendar year shall be inoculated within thirty (30) days after such
acquisition or being brought into the town.

   B.   Inoculation By Veterinarian: The inoculation required by the
preceding subsection shall be made by any veterinarian licensed to
practice veterinarian medicine in this state. (1997 Code §6.08.050)

6-7A-5: UNLAWFUL OWNERSHIP OF DANGEROUS DOG:

   A.   Violation of this section is subject to the penalties set forth
in section 1-4-1 and as set forth in this section. As used in this
section, unless the context otherwise requires:

      1.   “Bodily injury” means any physical injury that results in
severe bruising, muscle tears, or skin lacerations requiring
professional medical treatment or any physical injury that requires
corrective or cosmetic surgery.

      2.   “Dangerous dog” means any dog that:

         a.   Inflicts bodily or serious bodily injury upon or causes
the death of a person or domestic animal;

         b.   Demonstrates tendencies that would cause a reasonable
person to believe that the dog may inflict bodily or serious bodily
injury upon or cause the death of any person or domestic animal; or

         c.   Engages in or is trained for animal fighting as described
and prohibited in C.R.S. 18-9-204.

      3.   “Dog” means any domesticated animal related to the fox, wolf,
coyote, or jackal.

      4.   “Domestic animal” means any dog, cat, or livestock.

      5.   “Owner” or “owns” means any person, firm, corporation, or
organization owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, having financial or
property interest in, or having control or custody of a domestic animal,
as the term is defined in subsection (A)(4), including a dangerous dog
as the term is defined in subsection (A)(2).

      6.   “Serious bodily injury” has the same meaning as such term is
defined in C.R.S. 18-1-901(3)(p).

   B.   Violations:

      1.   A person commits ownership of a dangerous dog if such person
owns, possesses, harbors, keeps, has a financial or property interest
in, or has custody or control over a dangerous dog.

      2.   Any owner who violates subsection (B)(1) whose dog inflicts
bodily injury upon any person commits an offense against this section.

      3.   Any owner who violates subsection (B)(1) whose dog inflicts
serious bodily injury to a person commits an offense against this
section.

      4.   Any owner who violates subsection (B)(1) whose dog causes the
death of a person commits an offense against this section.

      5.   Any owner who violates subsection (B)(1) whose dog injures or
destroys any domestic animal commits an offense against this section.

      6.   The court shall order any owner of a dangerous dog who has
been convicted of a violation of this section to:

         a.   Confine the dangerous dog in a building or enclosure
designed to be escape-proof and, whenever the dog is outside of the
building or enclosure, keep the dog under the owner’s control by use of
a leash. The owner shall post a conspicuous warning sign on the building
or enclosure notifying others that a dangerous dog is housed in the
building or enclosure. The owner shall obtain an insurance policy with a
minimum liability amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
covering the dangerous dog. In addition, if the conviction is for a
second or subsequent offense, the dangerous dog shall also be muzzled
whenever it is outside of the building or enclosure.

         b.   Immediately report to an animal control officer in writing
any material change in the dangerous dog’s situation, including but not
limited to a change, transfer, or termination of ownership, change of
address, escape, or death.

         c.   At the owner’s expense, permanently identify the dangerous
dog through the implantation of a microchip by a licensed veterinarian
or a licensed shelter. A veterinarian or licensed shelter that implants
a microchip in a dangerous dog shall report the microchipping
information to an animal control officer, in writing, within ten (10)
days after implantation of the microchip.

         d.   Prior to the implantation of the microchip, pay a
nonrefundable dangerous dog microchip license fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) to the Town.

         e.   Prior to the dangerous dog receiving any service or
treatment, disclose in writing to any provider of the service or
treatment, including but not limited to a veterinary health care worker,
dog groomer, humane agency staff person, pet animal care facility staff
person, professional dog handler, or dog trainer, each acting in the
performance of his or her respective duties, that the dangerous dog has
been the subject of a conviction of a violation of this section.

         f.   Prior to a change, transfer, or termination of ownership
of a dangerous dog, disclose in writing to the prospective owner that
the dangerous dog has been the subject of a conviction of a violation of
this section.

      7.   In addition to any other penalty, upon an owner’s entry of a
guilty plea or the return of a verdict of guilty by a judge or jury or a
deferred judgment or deferred prosecution for a violation that results
in serious bodily injury to a person or death to a person or domestic
animal or for a second or subsequent violation of subsections (B)(2) or
(B)(5) resulting in a conviction or a deferred judgment or a deferred
prosecution involving the same dog of the same owner, the court shall
order that the dangerous dog be immediately confiscated and placed in a
public animal shelter and shall order that, upon exhaustion of any right
an owner has to appeal a conviction based on a violation of this
subsection (B), the owner’s dangerous dog be destroyed by lethal
injection administered by a licensed veterinarian.

      8.   In addition to any other penalty, for a second or subsequent
violation of subsection (B)(2) or (B)(5) resulting in a conviction or a
deferred judgment or a deferred prosecution involving the same dog of a
different owner, the court may order that the dangerous dog be
immediately confiscated and placed in a public animal shelter and that,
upon exhaustion of any right an owner has to appeal a conviction based
on a violation of this subsection (B), the owner’s dangerous dog be
destroyed by lethal injection administered by a licensed veterinarian.

      9.

         a.   An affirmative defense to the violation of this subsection
(B) shall be:

            (1)   That, at the time of the attack by the dangerous dog
which causes injury to or the death of a domestic animal, the domestic
animal was at large, was an astray, and entered upon the property of the
owner and the attack began, but did not necessarily end, upon such
property.

            (2)   That, at the time of the attack by the dangerous dog
which causes injury to or the death of a domestic animal, said animal
was biting or otherwise attacking the dangerous dog or its owner.

            (3)   That, at the time of the attack by the dangerous dog
which causes injury to or the death of a person, the victim of the
attack was committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense, other
than a petty offense, against the dog’s owner, and the attack did not
occur on the owner’s property.

            (4)   That, at the time of the attack by the dangerous dog
which causes injury to or the death of a person, the victim of the
attack was committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense, other
than a petty offense, against a person on the owner’s property or the
property itself and the attack began, but did not necessarily end, upon
such property; or

            (5)   That the person who was the victim of the attack by
the dangerous dog tormented, provoked, abused, or inflicted injury upon
the dog in such an extreme manner which resulted in the attack.

         b.   The affirmative defenses set forth in subparagraph (9)(a).
shall not apply to any dog that has engaged in or been trained for
animal fighting as said term is described in C.R.S. 18-9-204.

         c.   Upon taking an owner into custody for an alleged violation
of this section or the issuing of a summons and complaint to the owner,
the owner’s dangerous dog may be taken into custody and placed in a
public animal shelter, at the owner’s expense, pending final disposition
of the charge against the owner. In addition, in the event the court
sets bail for an owner’s release from custody pending final disposition,
the court may require, as a condition of bond, that the owner’s
dangerous dog be placed by an animal control officer, at the owner’s
expense, in a location selected by the animal control officer, including
a public animal shelter, licensed boarding facility, or veterinarian’s
clinic, pending final disposition of the alleged violation of this
section. The owner shall be liable for the total cost of board and care
for a dog placed pursuant to this subsection c.

         d.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
following:

            (1)   To any dog that is used by a peace officer while the
officer is engaged in the performance of peace officer duties;

            (2)   To any dog that inflicts bodily or serious bodily
injury to any veterinary health care worker, dog groomer, humane agency
personnel, professional dog handler, or trainer each acting in the
performance of his or her respective duties, unless the owner is subject
to a court order issued pursuant to subsection (B)(6) of this section
and the owner has failed to comply with the provisions of subsection
(B)(6)e.; or

            (3)   To any dog that inflicts injury upon or causes the
death of a domestic animal while the dog was working as a hunting dog,
herding dog, or predator control dog on the property of or under the
control of the dog’s owner and the injury or death was to a domestic
animal naturally associated with the work of such dog.

         e.   If impoundment of a dangerous dog running at large cannot
be made with safety to the animal control officer or other persons, the
dog may be destroyed by authorized police officials without notice to
the owner or harborer. (Ord. 567, 6-1-2020)

6-7A-6: DECLARATION AS DANGEROUS DOG:

(Rep. by Ord. 567, 6-1-2020)

6-7A-7: RUNNING AT LARGE; CONFINEMENT:

It is unlawful for any owner, possessor or keeper of any dog in the town
to permit the same to run at large within the town. A dog shall be
deemed to be running at large when off or away from the premises of the
owner, possessor or keeper thereof and not under the control of such
owner, possessor or keeper or his agent or servant or a member of his
immediate family, either by leash, cord or chain, not more than ten feet
(10') in length. (1997 Code §6.08.240)

6-7A-8: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSAL:

   A.   Impoundment Generally:

      1.   It shall be lawful for the dogcatcher and all police officers
to impound any dog which is not wearing a dog tag as herein provided and
any dog which they reasonably feel to be in violation of any of the
provisions of this article, whether such dog is wearing a dog tag or
not.

      2.   It shall be lawful for the dogcatcher or any police officer
to go upon private property for the purpose of catching any dog to be
impounded. (1997 Code §6.08.130)

   B.   Establishment And Operation Of Pound: The town administrator
shall have the right to establish a dog pound for the town to be
operated by town personnel, or at his election, he may, subject to the
approval of the board, contract with a public or private person or
organization for the operation of a dog pound for and on behalf of the
town. (1997 Code §6.08.140)

   C.   Filing Of Complaint:

      1.   If a dog is impounded, it shall be the duty of the dogcatcher
or any police officer to immediately institute proceedings in the
municipal court on behalf of the town against the owner, possessor or
keeper of such dog if known, charging the owner, possessor or keeper
with a violation of the appropriate section of this article.

      2.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as preventing the
dogcatcher, any police officer or any citizen from instituting a
proceeding in the municipal court in the town for violation of this
article where there is no impoundment. (1997 Code §6.08.150)

   D.   Impoundment Notice:

      1.   As soon as practicable after the date of impoundment, the
dogcatcher shall notify the owner of the dog, if he can be ascertained,
in the most expeditious manner, but shall also send by regular mail a
written notice of such impoundment to the owner, possessor or keeper of
such dog if the address of such person be known; if the owner, possessor
or keeper of such dog is not known or if his address cannot be
determined, the dogcatcher shall cause to be posted in a conspicuous
place in the town for five (5) consecutive days a notice of impoundment.

      2.   Whether the notice herein provided be mailed or posted, it
shall describe the dog, set forth the date of impoundment and set forth
the location from which the dog was taken up. (1997 Code §6.08.160)

   E.   Procedure For Release; Order For Destruction:

      1.   If complaint has been filed in the municipal court of the
town against the owner, possessor or keeper of any impounded dog for a
violation of this article, then such dog shall not be released from
impoundment except on order from a municipal judge.

      2.   In addition to any penalties which may be provided for in
this code for a violation of this article, the municipal judge shall
require such owner, possessor or keeper to pay the fees provided for in
subsection G of this section and shall have the authority, upon making a
finding that such dog constitutes a nuisance or that such dog is a
vicious dog or that such dog constitutes a clear and present danger to
the citizens of the community, to order that such dog be destroyed in a
humane manner by the dogcatcher or by persons authorized to do so by the
town administrator. (1997 Code §6.08.170)

   F.   Disposal Of Dog Whose Owner Cannot Be Located: If a complaint
has not been filed in municipal court because the owner, possessor or
keeper of an impounded dog is not known or cannot be located and such
dog has not been claimed within five (5) days from the date of
impoundment, not counting the first day of impoundment, the dog may be
disposed of in any humane manner prescribed by the dogcatcher or by
persons so authorized to do so by the town administrator. (1997 Code
§6.08.180)

   G.   Redemption Fees: Any owner, possessor or keeper of a dog
desiring to redeem such dog from the pound shall pay the town an
impoundment fee together with a fee for each day of impoundment for room
and board and any and all license or rabies inoculation fees provided
for in this article beginning with the day of impoundment. Such fees
shall be determined from time to time by the board of trustees by
resolution. (Ord. 540, 11-2-2015)

6-7A-9: INTERFERENCE WITH DOGCATCHER OR POLICE OFFICER:

It is unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
obstruct the dogcatcher or any police officer in the discharge of their
official duties under this article. (1997 Code §6.08.200)

6-7A-10: INSTIGATING OR ENCOURAGING DOGFIGHTS:

No person shall cause, instigate or encourage any dogfight within the
town. (1997 Code §6.08.210)

6-7A-11: CONFINEMENT OR MUZZLING OF DOGS DURING RABIES DANGER:

   A.   Proclamation Of Mayor: Whenever the mayor shall be of the
opinion that any danger exists from hydrophobia in the town or other
danger exists from dogs running at large within the town, he shall issue
his proclamation requiring every owner, possessor or keeper of any dog
within the town to confine or securely muzzle the same for such time as
he may designate, during which time it shall be unlawful for any dog to
be within the town unless so securely muzzled within a good and
substantial wire or leather muzzle securely fastened and put on so to
prevent any such dog from biting.

   B.   Impoundment Of Dogs: It shall be the duty of the dogcatcher and
all police officers of the town to take up and impound any dog that may
be found during the time so designated by the mayor as aforesaid unless
muzzled or confined as herein provided. (1997 Code §6.08.220)

6-7A-12: BARKING, HOWLING AND NOISEMAKING:

Any dog shall be deemed to be a public nuisance if such dog is permitted
to engage in excessive barking, howling or making a noise which tends to
be annoying to adjacent residents or inhabitants of property near the
premises where such animals are kept or harbored. Barking, howling or
making a noise shall be deemed to be annoying if it is repetitive or
loud, and offensive to nearby residents or inhabitants. (1997 Code
§6.08.270)

6-7A-13: FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT:

Any unspayed female dog, while in heat, shall be securely confined
during such period in the owner's yard, pen or other enclosure. Such
yard, pen or enclosure shall be so constructed or situated as to prevent
other dogs from gaining access to such yard, pen or other enclosure.
(1997 Code §6.08.230)

6-7A-14: NOTICE OR KNOWLEDGE OF VIOLATION; PROSECUTION:

For the purpose of prosecution for violations of this article, it shall
not be necessary in order to obtain a conviction to prove notice or
knowledge on the part of the owner, possessor or keeper of the dog in
question that such dog was violating any of the provisions of this
article at the time and place charged, it being the purpose and intent
of this article to impose strict liability upon the owner, possessor or
keeper of any dog for the actions, conduct and condition of such dog.
(1997 Code §6.08.260)

ARTICLE B. CATS

SECTION:

6-7B-1: Identification And Control

6-7B-2: Disease Control

6-7B-3: Parent's Liability

6-7B-4: Licensing Requirements; Fees

6-7B-5: Impoundment, Redemption And Disposal

6-7B-6: Noise

6-7B-7: Violation; Penalty

6-7B-1: IDENTIFICATION AND CONTROL:

Every person residing in the town, and owning or having in his
possession any cat, shall have the cat bear identification, either by
tag or ear tattoo. (1997 Code §6.12.010)

6-7B-2: DISEASE CONTROL:

Every person residing in the town, and owning or having in his
possession any cat, shall be required to have the cat inoculated for
rabies, distemper or other dangerous disease. (1997 Code §6.12.020)

6-7B-3: PARENT'S LIABILITY:

The parent or guardian of any minor claiming ownership of any cat shall
be deemed to be the owner of such animal, and shall be charged for all
penalties and pound fees imposed by this article. (1997 Code §6.12.030)

6-7B-4: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:

   A.   Licensing And Fees: It is unlawful for any person to harbor or
permit to remain about the premises any cat more than five (5) months of
age for which no license exists. The license fee for cats within the
town shall be determined from time to time by the board of trustees by
resolution for licensing each cat. No household shall keep or maintain
more than five (5) cats.

   B.   Application For License:

      1.   Application for license shall be made to the town clerk and
shall include the name and address of the applicant, description of the
animal, the appropriate fee, information as to whether or not the animal
is spayed or neutered, and a rabies certificate or tag issued by a
licensed veterinarian or antirabies clinic.

      2.   Application for the required cat license shall be obtained
within the later of thirty (30) days from the date such cat becomes five
(5) months of age or thirty (30) days after the cat’s acquisition. New
residents of the town shall have thirty (30) days after becoming such
residents to secure a required license hereunder. (1997 Code § 6.12.050;
amd. Ord. 540, 11-2-2015; Ord. 570, 1-4-2021)

6-7B-5: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSAL:

   A.   Impoundment Generally:

      1.   If a cat is impounded, it shall be the duty of the police
officer doing the impounding to immediately institute proceedings in the
municipal court on behalf of the town against the owner, possessor or
keeper of such cat, if known, charging the owner, possessor or keeper
with a violation of the appropriate section of this article.

      2.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as preventing the
police officer, or any citizen, from instituting proceedings in
municipal court in the town for violation of this article where there is
no impoundment.

   B.   Notice To Owner Or Keeper:

      1.   As soon as practicable after the date of impoundment, the
town clerk shall cause to be sent by regular mail a written notice of
such impoundment to the owner, possessor or keeper of such cat if the
address of such person is known.

      2.   If the owner, possessor or keeper of such cat is not known,
or if his address cannot be determined, the town clerk shall cause to be
posted in a conspicuous place in the town, for a term of five (5)
consecutive days, a notice of impoundment.

      3.   Whether the notice herein is provided by mail or posted, it
shall describe the cat, set forth the date of impoundment, and set forth
the location from which the cat was taken up.

   C.   Release Upon Payment: Any owner or person having custody of a
cat impounded may reclaim such cat by paying to the town an impoundment
fee together with a fee for each day of impoundment for room and board
and any and all license fees provided for in this section beginning with
the day of impoundment. Such fees shall be determined from time to time
by the board of trustees by resolution.

   D.   Disposal Of Stray Cats: If it is determined by the town clerk or
the town clerk’s authorized representative that a cat is a stray and has
become a public nuisance, the cat may be disposed of at the direction of
the town clerk or the town clerk’s authorized representative. For the
purposes of this provision, any animal control officer of the town shall
be an authorized representative of the town clerk. (1997 Code §§
6.12.060, 6.12.070, 6.12.090; amd. Ord. 540, 11-2-2015; Ord. 569,
8-3-2020)

6-7B-6: NOISE:

All persons owning, possessing or harboring a cat shall prevent such cat
from whining or making other sounds common to its species in excessive,
continuous or untimely fashion. (1997 Code §6.12.100)

6-7B-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:

Any person, firm or corporation, upon violation of any provision of this
article, shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. (1997 Code §6.12.110)

CHAPTER 8
NOISE

SECTION:

6-8-1: Noises Generally Prohibited

6-8-2: Loudspeakers, Limitations

6-8-3: Mufflers

6-8-4: Sirens, Whistles, Gongs And Red Lights

6-8-5: Animals

6-8-1: NOISES GENERALLY PROHIBITED:

   A.   Nuisance Declared: The making of unnecessary noises upon, near
or adjacent to the streets, highways and other public places in the town
is declared to be a public nuisance. The enumeration of the particular
offenses hereinafter particularly defined shall not be construed as
limiting the generality of this chapter, or limiting the offenses
hereunder to the particular offenses hereinafter enumerated.

   B.   Hours Of Restriction: It is unlawful for any person to make,
continue to or cause to be made or continued any unnecessary or unusual
noise between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. which either annoys, injures or endangers the comfort,
repose, health or safety of others. (1997 Code § 8.20.010; amd. Ord.
579, 10-4-2021; Ord. 579, 10-4-2021)

6-8-2: LOUDSPEAKERS, LIMITATIONS:

It is unlawful to play, operate or use any device known as a soundtrack,
loudspeaker, or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph with loudspeaker or
sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits
loud and raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle upon
public places unless such person in charge of such vehicle shall have
first applied to and received permission from the mayor or chief of
police to operate any such vehicle so equipped. (1997 Code § 8.20.020)

6-8-3: MUFFLERS:

It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which shall not
at all times be equipped with a muffler upon the exhaust thereof in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise, and it is unlawful for any person operating any motor vehicle to
use a cutout, bypass or similar muffler elimination appliance. (1997
Code § 8.20.030)

6-8-4: SIRENS, WHISTLES, GONGS AND RED LIGHTS:

It is unlawful for any person to carry or use upon any vehicle other
than police and fire department vehicles or emergency vehicles for
public use, any gong, siren, whistle or red light similar to that used
on ambulances or vehicles of the police and fire department. (1997 Code
§ 8.20.040)

6-8-5: ANIMALS:

It is unlawful for any person to own, keep, have in his possession or
harbor any domesticated animals which, by frequent or habitual howling,
barking, meowing, squawking or otherwise, shall cause annoyance or
disturbance to persons in the neighborhood, provided the provisions of
this section shall not apply to hospitals conducted for the treatment of
small animals which are approved by the health department or to premises
occupied or used by town pound. (1997 Code § 8.20.050)

CHAPTER 9
FIREWORKS

SECTION:

6-9-1: Fireworks Defined

6-9-2: Licensing Requirements; Fees

6-9-3: Sale And Use Restricted

6-9-4: Public Displays, Permit And Regulations

6-9-5: Bond Required

6-9-6: Disposal Of Unfired Fireworks

6-9-7: Seizure Of Fireworks

6-9-8: Exceptions

6-9-1: FIREWORKS DEFINED:

FIREWORKS: Means and includes any article, device or substance prepared
for the primary purpose of producing a visual or auditory sensation by
combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation, including, without
limitation, the following articles and devices commonly known and used
as fireworks: toy cannons, toy canes in which explosives are used, blank
cartridges, the type of balloon which requires fire underneath to propel
the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, roman candles and dago
bombs.

The term "fireworks" shall not include fountains, pinwheels, toy
pistols, toy guns, sparklers or torches which do not contain explosive
charges or other devices in which paper caps manufactured in accordance
with United States interstate commerce commission regulations for
packing and shipping of toy paper caps are used and toy pistol paper
caps manufactured as provided herein. (1997 Code § 8.08.010)

6-9-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:

   A.   License Required:

      1.   No person shall sell at retail any type of fireworks,
including fountains, pinwheels, sparklers or torches, until he has
obtained a license from the board of trustees.

      2.   No fireworks of any description shall be displayed for sale
by any person, firm or corporation in the town or offered for sale or
sold prior to ten (10) days before July 1 in any year, and no display or
sale thereof shall be continued after July 5 in any year. (1997 Code §
8.08.020)

   B.   License Issuance Requirements: A license to sell fireworks in
the town shall be issued only for such sales as are permitted under this
chapter and only when the board of trustees has determined that the
vendor meets the following requirements:

      1.   That the applicant, or if a corporation, its officers and
directors are of a good moral character and reputation;

      2.   That the applicant has no plan, intent, or scheme to make
sales which are prohibited by this chapter or the state statutes. (1997
Code § 8.08.030)

   C.   License Duration And Fees: Such license shall be valid for the
period of June 24 through July 5 of every year, and a fee of the sum of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per retail license shall be payable for the
issuance of such license. (1997 Code § 8.08.040; amd. 2016 Code)

6-9-3: SALE AND USE RESTRICTED:

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful for any
person to offer for sale, expose for sale, sell or have in his
possession with intent to offer for sale, sell or to use any fireworks,
within the town. (1997 Code § 8.08.050)

6-9-4: PUBLIC DISPLAYS, PERMIT AND REGULATIONS:

   A.   Granting Of Permits: The board of trustees shall have the power
to grant permits within the town for supervised public displays of
fireworks by the town amusement parks, and other organizations and
groups, and to adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the granting
of such permits.

   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a permit shall be made
in writing at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of display.

   C.   Handling Of Display: Every display shall be handled by a
competent operator and shall be of such character and so located,
discharged and fired as not to be hazardous to property or endanger any
person.

   D.   Investigation: Before a permit is granted, the operator and the
location and handling of the display shall be approved after
investigation by the chief of the fire department of the town, or his
authorized agent.

   E.   Permit Nontransferable: No permit shall be transferable or
assignable. (1997 Code § 8.08.060)

6-9-5: BOND REQUIRED:

A satisfactory bond shall be required of each permittee in the sum of
not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) conditioned for the payment
of all damages which may be caused either to persons or property by
reason of the licensed display and arising from the acts of the
permittee, his agents, employees or subcontractors. The aggregate
liability of the surety on such bond for all damages in no event shall
exceed the sum of such bond. (1997 Code § 8.08.070)

6-9-6: DISPOSAL OF UNFIRED FIREWORKS:

Any fireworks that remain unfired after the display is concluded shall
be immediately disposed of by the fire department in a method which is
safe for the discharge of that or those particular types of fireworks.
(1997 Code § 8.08.080)

6-9-7: SEIZURE OF FIREWORKS:

The police department of the town shall seize, take, remove, at the
expense of the owner, all stocks of fireworks or combustibles offered or
exposed for sale, stored or held in violation of this chapter. (1997
Code § 8.08.090)

6-9-8: EXCEPTIONS:

This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit:

   A.   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling or
having in his possession with intent to offer for sale or sell,
fireworks to any municipality, fair association, amusement park, or
other organization or group holding a permit issued as provided in this
chapter, or to the governing body of any county or district fair,
organized under the laws of the state.

   B.   Any person from using or exploding fireworks in accordance with
the provisions in this chapter or as a part of a supervised public
display at any county or district fair organized under the laws of the
state.

   C.   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling or
having in his possession with intent to offer for sale, any fireworks
which are to be sold and are shipped directly out of the state.

   D.   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling or
having in his possession with intent to offer for sale or sell, or using
or exploding any article, device or substance for a purpose other than
display, exhibition, noise, amusement or entertainment.

   E.   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling or
having in his possession with intent to offer for sale or sell, or using
or exploding blank cartridges for a show or theater, or for signal or
ceremonial purposes in organized athletics or sports.

   F.   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling or
having in his possession with intent to offer for sale or sell, or using
or firing, toy pistols, toy guns, sparklers or torches which do not
contain explosive charges or other devices in which paper caps
manufactured in accordance with United States interstate commerce
commission regulations for packing and shipping of toy paper caps used
and toy pistol paper caps manufactured as provided in this chapter.
(1997 Code § 8.08.100)

CHAPTER 10
MEETINGS, ASSEMBLIES AND PARADES

SECTION:

6-10-1: Definitions

6-10-2: Permit Required

6-10-3: Application For Permit

6-10-4: Exceptions

6-10-5: Findings Required

6-10-6: Conditions To Permit

6-10-7: Prior Application; Refusal Of Permit

6-10-8: Notice Of Issuance Or Denial

6-10-9: Appeal Procedure

6-10-10: Duty Of Permittee

6-10-11: Public Conduct During Activity

6-10-12: Revocation Of Permit

6-10-1: DEFINITIONS:

For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:

ACTIVITY: A parade or public meeting or assembly.

FUNERAL PROCESSION: A single direct movement from a mortuary or church
to the place of burial of a human body, under direction of an authorized
funeral director.

PARADE: A march or procession of any kind.

PUBLIC MEETING OR ASSEMBLY: A planned or organized gathering of a group
of persons, or any ceremony, show, exhibition or pageant which may
reasonably be expected to result in the gathering of a group of persons,
upon any public street, park or other public grounds. (1997 Code §
12.36.010)

6-10-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:

It is unlawful for any person to hold, manage, conduct, aid, participate
in, form, start or carry on any "parade" or "public meeting or
assembly", as defined in this chapter, in or upon any public street,
park or other public grounds in the town unless and until a permit to
conduct such meeting, assembly or parade has been obtained in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter, except as herein provided. (1997
Code § 12.36.020)

6-10-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:

   A.   Filing Application With County Sheriff: Application for permits
under this chapter must be filed with the Washington County sheriff's
office not less than five (5) days in advance of the proposed activity.
Late applications may be accepted if filed sufficiently in advance of
the date of the proposed activity to enable the sheriff to determine
that the activity will meet the requirements set forth in section 6-10-5
of this chapter.

   B.   Information Required: This application shall be in writing and
shall give the following information:

      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the person
requesting the permit. If the activity is proposed to be conducted for,
on behalf of, or by any organization, the name, address and telephone
number of the headquarters of the organization and the authorized head
of such organization shall be stated.

      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will
be directly in charge of and responsible for the activity.

      3.   The purpose of the activity.

      4.   The date, time and location or route of the proposed
activity.

      5.   The approximate number of persons who will participate in the
activity and the number and kind of vehicles, equipment and animals
which will be used.

      6.   Plans for the assembly and dispersal of the parade, including
times and locations thereof.

      7.   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only
a portion of the streets proposed to be traversed.

      8.   A statement as to whether a permit has been requested or
obtained from any other town within which the activity shall commence,
terminate or occur in part.

      9.   Any additional information which the sheriff shall find
reasonably necessary to a determination of the findings required by
section 6-10-5 of this chapter. (1997 Code § 12.36.040)

6-10-4: EXCEPTIONS:

This chapter shall not apply to any of the following:

   A.   Funeral processions.

   B.   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.

   C.   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided such activity is authorized by the
school district and is under the immediate direction and supervision of
the school authorities authorized by the school district to approve and
supervise such activity. (1997 Code § 12.36.030)

6-10-5: FINDINGS REQUIRED:

The sheriff or his designated representative shall issue a permit as
provided for hereunder when, from a consideration of the application and
from such other information as may otherwise be obtained, he finds that:

   A.   The conduct of such activity will not substantially interrupt
the safe and orderly movement of other traffic;

   B.   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles will not
unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection of, or ambulance
service to, areas where the activity will take place or areas contiguous
to such area;

   C.   The conduct of such activity will not unduly interfere with the
movement of firefighting equipment en route to a fire, or the movement
of other emergency equipment;

   D.   The conduct of such activity is not reasonably likely to cause
injury to persons or property; and

   E.   Such activity is not to be held for the sole purpose of
advertising the goods, wares or merchandise of a particular business
establishment or vendor. (1997 Code § 12.36.050)

6-10-6: CONDITIONS TO PERMIT:

   A.   Authority To Impose: The sheriff shall have authority to impose
such conditions as are necessary to ensure that all of the findings
mentioned in section 6-10-5 of this chapter shall exist during the
continuation of the activity. (1997 Code § 12.36.060)

   B.   Contents Of Permit: Conditions to the issuance of any permit
shall be set forth in the permit. (1997 Code § 12.36.100)

6-10-7: PRIOR APPLICATION; REFUSAL OF PERMIT:

If a prior permit application shall have been made for an activity
proposed to be held at the same time or place, the sheriff may refuse
approval of the later application. In case of such refusal, he shall
forthwith send the applicant a written notice that he may apply for an
alternate time and place. (1997 Code § 12.36.070)

6-10-8: NOTICE OF ISSUANCE OR DENIAL:

The sheriff shall act upon the permit application within three (3) days
of the filing thereof. If he disapproves of the application, he shall
mail to the applicant within that three (3) day period notice of the
denial and the reason for it. (1997 Code § 12.36.080)

6-10-9: APPEAL PROCEDURE:

The applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial of a permit to
the town council. A notice of appeal shall be filed with the town clerk
within two (2) days after receipt of the notice of the denial. The town
council shall act upon the appeal at its next meeting following receipt
of the notice of the appeal. (1997 Code § 12.36.090)

6-10-10: DUTY OF PERMITTEE:

   A.   Compliance With Terms Of Permit: A permittee hereunder shall
comply with all terms and conditions of the permit and with all
applicable laws and ordinances.

   B.   Carrying Permit: The written permit obtained pursuant to this
chapter shall be carried by the person heading or leading the activity
for which the permit was issued. (1997 Code § 12.36.110)

6-10-11: PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING ACTIVITY:

   A.   Obstructing Or Interfering With Activity: It is unlawful for any
person to unreasonably obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade or
public meeting or assembly or with any person, vehicle or animal
participating in such parade, meeting or assembly for which a permit has
been granted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

   B.   Parking Of Vehicles Restricted: The sheriff shall have the
authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the
parking of vehicles along a highway or part thereof constituting part of
the route of a parade. The sheriff shall post signs to such effect, and
it is unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation thereof. (1997 Code § 12.36.130)

6-10-12: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:

The sheriff may revoke any permit issued hereunder upon the failure of
the permittee to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit or
if the activity, because of the manner in which it is being conducted,
or for any other reason, is jeopardizing those elements of the public
safety or welfare set forth in section 6-10-5 of this chapter. (1997
Code § 12.36.120)

CHAPTER 11
AKRON FISHING POND

SECTION:

6-11-1: Definitions

6-11-2: Hours Of Operation

6-11-3: Prohibited Activities

6-11-4: Penalties

6-11-1: DEFINITIONS:

The following definition shall apply to this chapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:

 

  --------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  AKRON FISHING POND:   That pond and surrounding area located at 39543 Hwy 63, Akron, CO 80720, and generally known as the “Akron Fishing Pond.” (Ord. 580, 10-4-2021)
  --------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

6-11-2: HOURS OF OPERATION:

The hours of operation for the Akron Municipal Pond are from five
o’clock (5:00) a.m to eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. It shall be unlawful
for any person to be present at the Akron Municipal Pond outside of the
hours of operation without a permit issued by the Town of Akron. (Ord.
580, 10-4-2021)

6-11-3: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:

The following are prohibited at the Akron Municipal Pond:

   A.   Swimming or wading.

   B.   Use of gas-powered boat engines.

   C.   Unattended fires or fires outside of designated fire pits or
grills.

   D.   Failure to pick up pet excrement.

   E.   Failure to wear a life vest in the pond.

   F.   Use of motorized vehicles outside of maintained road or
designated parking areas.

   G.   Use of drones outside of Federal Aviation Administration
Regulations.

   H.   Use of amplified sound systems.

   I.   Camping without a Town-issued permit.

   J.   Selling any goods or services.

   K.   Use of fireworks.

   L.   Possession of glass containers.

   M.   Hunting or recreational shooting.

   N.   Misuse or destruction of Town of Akron property. (Ord. 580,
10-4-2021)

6-11-4: PENALTIES:

Anyone convicted of any violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter 11, Title 6 of the Akron Municipal Code shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed two thousand six hundred and fifty dollars
($2,650.00). (Ord. 580, 10-4-2021)

CHAPTER 12
AKRON PUBLIC PARKS

SECTION:

6-12-1: Definitions

6-12-2: Hours Of Operation

6-12-3: Prohibited Activities

6-12-4: Penalties

6-12-1: DEFINITIONS:

The following definition shall apply to this chapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:

 

  --------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  AKRON PUBLIC PARKS:   All public parks within the Town of Akron, State of Colorado, including those located at [insert addresses] are Akron Public Parks. (Ord. 581, 12-7-2021)
  --------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

6-12-2: HOURS OF OPERATION:

The hours of operation for all Akron Public Parks are from five o’clock
(5:00) a.m to eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. It shall be unlawful for any
person to be present in any Akron Public Parks outside of the hours of
operation. (Ord. 581, 12-7-2021)

6-12-3: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:

The following are prohibited in all Akron Public Parks:

   A.   Unattended fires or fires outside of designated fire pits or
grills.

   B.   Failure to keep pets on leashes.

   C.   Failure to pick up pet excrement.

   D.   Selling any goods or services.

   E.   Use of fireworks.

   F.   Possession of glass containers.

   G.   Use of amplified sound systems.

   H.   Misuse or destruction of Town of Akron property. (Ord. 581,
12-7-2021)

6-12-4: PENALTIES:

Anyone convicted of any violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter 12, Title 6 of the Akron Municipal Code shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed two thousand six hundred and fifty dollars
($2,650.00). (Ord. 581, 12-7-2021)

TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC

CHAPTER 1
MODEL TRAFFIC CODE

SECTION:

7-1-1: Code Adopted

7-1-2: Deletions

7-1-3: Additions Or Modifications

7-1-4: Application

7-1-5: Interpretation

7-1-6: Violations; Penalties

7-1-1: CODE ADOPTED:

   A.   Adoption: The "Model Traffic Code" 2024 edition is published by
the Colorado Department of Transportation, Traffic Engineering and
Safety Branch, 2829 West Howard Place, Denver, CO 80204. The subject
matter of the Model Traffic Code relates primarily to comprehensive
traffic control regulations for the town. The purpose of the Ordinance
and the Code adopted therein is to provide a system of traffic
regulations consistent with state law and generally conforming to
similar regulations throughout the state and the nation.

   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter and the code adopted herein
is to provide a system of traffic regulations consistent with Colorado
state law and generally conforming to similar regulations throughout the
state and the United States of America.

   C.   Copies on File: Three (3) copies of the Model Traffic Code
adopted herein are now filed in the office of the clerk of the Town of
Akron, Colorado, and may be inspected during regular business hours.

(Ord. 595, 8-5-2024)

7-1-2: DELETIONS:

   The 2024 edition of the model traffic code is adopted as if set out
at length save and except the following articles or sections which are
declared to be inapplicable to this municipality and are therefore
expressly deleted: Section 1409(9) is deleted in its entirety.

(Ord. 595, 8-5-2024)

7-1-3: ADDITIONS OR MODIFICATIONS:

The model traffic code is subject to the following additions or
modifications:

225(3). Section 225(3) is amended to read:

   "Any person who violates subsection (1) of this section commits a
class B traffic infraction".

615. Designated school zones.

   (1)   The Town may designate certain streets or portions thereof as
school zones. Where flashing lights or signs mandate a reduced speed in
a school zone, said zone shall always be considered a designated school
zone, regardless of whether any such lights are flashing at the time of
the violation.

   (2)   Any person convicted of speeding in a designated school zone
shall be penalized by twice the amount of the fine which is in effect by
virtue of the fine schedule adopted by the Municipal Court.

   (3)   Signs indicating that fines will be doubled shall be posted on
or in close proximity to the signs establishing the school zone. The
failure to post such signs shall not be a defense to the underlying
speeding charge but shall prohibit the imposition of double fines by the
Municipal Court.

   (4)   A designated school zone shall be designated by flashing
beacons or signs at the school zone limits, and this Section shall be
enforced in such school zones while the beacons are flashing and during
the times indicated on the signs.

703.1. Through Streets: In accordance with the provisions of section
703, and when official signs are erected giving notice thereof, drivers
of vehicles shall stop or yield as required by said signs at every
intersection before entering any of the following streets or parts of
streets:

 

  --------------------------------- ------------------------------------
  Name Of Street                    Portion Affected (Terminal Limits)
  Cedar Street                      All
  Main Street                       All
  First Street                      All
  Second Street                     Intersection at Adams
  Third and Fourth Streets at Elm   Four-way stop
  Sixth Street                      Cedar at Elm
  --------------------------------- ------------------------------------

 

1102.5. Decreased Speed Limits: In accordance with the provisions of
section 1102 of the model traffic code for Colorado, revised 2010, as
adopted by the town of Akron, Colorado, the lawful speed limit on all
streets within the town of Akron, Colorado, shall be set at 25 miles per
hour, with the exception of any portion of a street that is designated
as a school zone by appropriate signs posted indicating the portion of
the street is a school zone. The lawful speed limit in all school zones
within the town of Akron, Colorado shall be set at 20 miles per hour.

This section shall not affect those portions of Cedar Avenue, also known
as Colorado State Highway 63, and those portions of 1st Street, also
known as U.S. Highway 34, over which the Colorado department of
transportation or the U.S. department of transportation exercises
proprietary state or exclusive federal jurisdiction to determine the
speed limit.

1203. Parking Of Trucks In Certain Areas Prohibited: No person shall
park a tandem truck, a truck tractor or trailer, or vehicle of greater
length than a tandem truck any time on the streets or alleys or any part
of the town north of Second Street in said town.

   1203.1. No person shall park any truck on Main Street between the
intersection of North Railway Street and Third Street.

   1203.2. Abandonment Of Vehicles: No person shall abandon any vehicle
within the town and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place
within the town for such time under circumstances as to cause such
vehicle reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.

   1203.3. Leaving Of Wrecked, Non-Operating Vehicles On Private
Property: No person in charge or control of any property within the town
whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow
any partially dismantled, non- operating, wrecked, junked or discarded
vehicle to remain on such property longer than thirty (30) days; except
that this ordinance shall not apply with regard to a vehicle within an
enclosed building, a vehicle on premises of a business enterprise
operated in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation
of such business enterprise; or a vehicle in an appropriate storage
place maintained in a lawful manner by the town.

   1203.4. Disposition Of Wrecked Or Discarded Vehicles: The town
administrator or an employee of the town designated by him is hereby
authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place
within the town which reasonably appears to be in violation of this
ordinance or lost, stolen or unclaimed. Such vehicle shall be impounded
until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with the law.

   1203.5. Leaving Or Parking Of Wrecked, Nonoperating, Or Unlicensed
Vehicles: No person shall leave or park any partially dismantled,
non-operating, wrecked, junked, or unlicensed vehicle at any time on any
street, alley, highway, public right-of-way, or easement within the town
of Akron, Colorado.

   As used in this section, "unlicensed vehicle" means any motor vehicle
required to be registered or licensed pursuant to title 42, article 3 of
the Colorado Revised Statutes that is not properly registered or
licensed.

1204.1. Dynamic Braking Devices Prohibited: The use of dynamic braking
devices, also known as jake brakes, or any other similarly designated
auxiliary engine braking system upon trucks and other motor vehicles is
hereby prohibited within the confines of the limits of the town. Any
person who utilizes such braking system and thereby creates an annoying
and disturbing noise within the town shall be guilty of a violation of
this section. It shall be sufficient for prosecution and conviction of a
violation of this offense if the dynamic braking is overheard, and if
the vehicle is observed to be operating in the general proximity of the
occurrence of the noise.

1204.2. Exceptions: It shall be an affirmative defense to an alleged
violation of this chapter if the vehicle is in an emergency situation
and in an effort to avoid collision with any other vehicle, stationary
object, or moving object, use of dynamic braking devices is required for
purposes of avoiding said collision.

1204.5. Parking Time Limited On Certain Streets: In accordance with the
provisions of section 1204, and when official signs are erected giving
notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a period of time
longer than the hours or minutes marked between the hours of 8:00 A.M.
and 6:00 P.M. of any day except Sundays and public holidays upon any
streets or parts of streets as follows:

 

  ---------------- -----------------------------------------------
  Name Of Street   Portion Affected (Terminal Limits)
  Main Street      Railroad to Third, places and times as marked
  ---------------- -----------------------------------------------

 

1205(3). Angle Parking: In accordance with the authority granted to the
board of trustees under section 1205(3) of the model traffic code, angle
parking shall be permitted and the streets will be painted on the
following portions of streets:

  -------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Adams Avenue   From Fifth Street south 51 feet from the southeast corner, on the east side of the street only, in front of the Washington County clinic
  Adams Avenue   The east side only from First Street on the south to Second Street on the north
  Ash Avenue     Both sides from Railroad Avenue on the south to Second Street on the north; and the east side only from Third Street on the north, one-half block south
  Birch Avenue   The west side only from First Street on the south to Second Street on the north; and the east side only from Second Street on the south to Third Street on the north; and from Fourth Street on the north, one-half block south
  Delta Avenue   The west side only from Fourth Street on the south to Fifth Street on the north; both sides from Sixth Street on the south to Seventh Street on the north; and the west side only from Seventh Street on the south to Eighth Street on the north
  Eagle Avenue   From Sixth Street north to the driveway of St. Joseph's Catholic Church, on the east side of the street only
  Main Avenue    Both sides from Railroad Avenue on the south to Fifth Street on the north
  Sixth Street   The north side only from Ash Street on the west, one- half block east to the alley on the east
                 
  -------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

1210(3). Section 1210(3) is amended to read:

   “Any person who violates the provisions of subsection (2) of this
section is guilty of a class 2 petty offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of twenty five dollars.”

(1997 Code §§ 10.04.030, 10.08.035; amd. Ord. 468, 6-7-2004; Ord. 476,
7-5-2005; Ord. 497, 8-3-2010; Ord. 512, 11-4-2013; Ord. 513, 11-4-2013;
Ord. 577, 7-6-2021)

7-1-4: APPLICATION:

   A.   This chapter shall apply to every street, alley, sidewalk area,
driveway, park, and to every other public way or public place or public
parking area, either within or outside the corporate limits of the town,
the use of which this town has jurisdiction and authority to regulate.

   B.   The provisions of sections 1401, 1402, 1413, and part 16 of the
adopted model traffic code, respectively concerning reckless driving,
careless driving, eluding a police officer, and accidents and accident
reports shall apply not only to public places and ways but also
throughout the town. (Ord. 497, 8-3-2010)

7-1-5: INTERPRETATION:

This chapter shall be so interpreted and construed as to effectuate its
general purpose to conform with the state of Colorado's uniform system
for the regulation of vehicles and traffic. Article and section headings
of this chapter and the adopted model traffic code shall not be deemed
to govern, limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or
extent of the provisions of any article or section thereof. (Ord. 497,
8-3-2010)

7-1-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:

The following penalties, herewith set forth in full, shall apply to this
chapter:

   A.   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions
adopted in this chapter. (Ord. 497, 8-3-2010)

   B.   Any person convicted of a violation of any provision adopted in
this chapter shall be punished as provided in section 1-4-1 of this
code. (Ord. 497, 8-3-2010; amd. 2016 Code)

   C.   The penalties for specific violations of the model traffic code
may be set or modified from time to time by resolution of the board of
trustees. (Ord. 497, 8-3-2010)

CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS

SECTION:

7-2-1: Driver's License Required Within Town

7-2-2: Speeding Ticket Surcharge

7-2-3: Wireless Telephone Prohibitions For Drivers

7-2-4: Helmet Required For Minors Riding Certain Vehicles

7-2-1: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED WITHIN TOWN:

   A.   State License Or Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided
in title 42, article 2, parts 1 and 4 of the Colorado Revised Statutes,
no person shall drive any motor vehicle within the town unless such
person has been issued a currently valid driver's or minor driver's
license or an instruction permit by the state of Colorado or another
state or country.

   B.   Possession Of License Or Permit:

      1.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle within the town
unless such person has in his or her immediate possession a current
driver's or minor driver's license or an instruction permit issued by
the state of Colorado or another state or country.

      2.   A charge of a violation of subsection B1 of this section
shall be dismissed by the municipal court if the defendant elects not to
pay the penalty assessment and at or before the defendant's scheduled
court appearance exhibits to the municipal court a currently valid
driver's or minor driver's license.

   C.   Certain Type Or Class Of Vehicle: No person who has been issued
a currently valid driver's or minor driver's license or an instruction
permit shall drive a type or general class of motor vehicle within the
town for which such person has not been issued the correct type or
general class of license or permit.

   D.   Justifiable Conduct:

      1.   The conduct of a driver of a motor vehicle which would
otherwise constitute a violation of this section is justifiable and not
unlawful when:

         a.   It is necessary as an emergency measure to avoid an
imminent public or private injury which is about to occur by reason of a
situation occasioned or developed through no conduct of the driver and
which is of sufficient gravity that, according to ordinary standards of
intelligence and morality, the desirability and urgency of avoiding the
injury clearly outweigh the desirability of avoiding the injury sought
to be prevented by this section; or

         b.   The defendant is exempt from the requirements of licensure
as those exemptions are set forth in Colorado Revised Statutes section
42-2-102.

      2.   The issue of justification or exemption is an affirmative
defense. As used in this subsection, "affirmative defense" means that,
unless the town's evidence raises the issue involving the particular
defense, the defendant, to raise the issue, shall present some credible
evidence on that issue. If the issue involved in an affirmative defense
is raised, then the liability of the defendant must be established
beyond a reasonable doubt as to that issue as well as all other
applicable elements of this section.

   E.   Effect Of Previous Convictions:

      1.   This section shall not apply to any defendant who has been
convicted two (2) or more times of violating this section or if the
person has been convicted two (2) or more times under the laws of the
state of Colorado or under the laws of any other state, the United
States, or any territory subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States, of an act that, if committed within the town, would constitute
an offense under this section.

      2.   For the purposes of this section, "conviction" means a
verdict of guilty by a judge or jury or a plea of guilty, no contest, or
nolo contendere that is accepted by the court for an offense or
adjudication for an offense that would constitute a violation of this
section. "Conviction" also includes having received a deferred judgment
and sentence or deferred adjudication; except that a person shall not be
deemed to have been convicted if the person has successfully completed a
deferred sentence or deferred adjudication.

      3.   If it is determined that a defendant charged with a violation
of this section has two (2) or more prior convictions, the charge
brought pursuant to this section shall be dismissed by the municipal
court and shall be filed in the Washington County court.

   F.   Violation; Penalty:

      1.   Upon a first violation of this section, the municipal court
shall assess a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). Upon a second violation
of this section, the municipal court shall assess a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00).

      2.   The municipal court retains the power to assess other
additional penalties in its discretion and within its jurisdiction to
impose. (Ord. 500, 4-4-2011)

7-2-2: SPEEDING TICKET SURCHARGE:

   A.   Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes section 42-4-1701(4)(e),
an additional surcharge of seventeen dollars ($17.00) shall be assessed
for speeding violations under the model traffic code for Colorado
municipalities, as revised in 2003, as adopted by the town.

   B.   The surcharge shall be paid to the clerk of the municipal court
by the defendant. Of the surcharge, two dollars ($2.00) shall be
retained by the town and the remaining fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be
transmitted to the Colorado state treasurer for credit to the Colorado
traumatic brain injury trust fund, within fourteen (14) days after the
end of each fiscal year. (Ord. 494, 9-1-2009)

7-2-3: WIRELESS TELEPHONE PROHIBITIONS FOR DRIVERS:

   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context
otherwise requires, the following terms have the following meanings:

    EMERGENCY: A situation in which a person:

      1.   Has reason to fear for such person's life or safety or
believes that a criminal act may be perpetrated against such person or
another person, requiring the use of a wireless telephone while the car
is moving; or

      2.   Reports a fire, a traffic accident in which one or more
injuries are apparent, a serious road hazard, a medical or hazardous
materials emergency, or a person who is driving in a reckless, careless,
or otherwise unsafe manner.

   HANDHELD COMPUTER: A mobile and compact computer built to function as
a personal scheduling assistant or that provides a connection to the
internet or other wireless technology.

   OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE: Driving a motor vehicle on a public
highway. "Operating a motor vehicle" shall not mean maintaining the
instruments of control while the motor vehicle is at rest in a shoulder
lane or while the motor vehicle is lawfully parked.

   PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT: A handheld computer, often pen based or
with a keyboard input system, that provides software, especially
organizational software such as an appointment calendar, contacts, note
taking applications, or other applications, and communications hardware,
such as a fax modem.

   USE: Talking on or listening to a wireless telephone or engaging the
wireless telephone, a personal digital assistant, handheld computer, or
other similar device for text messaging or other forms of manual data
entry or transmission.

   WIRELESS TELEPHONE: A telephone that operates without a physical,
wireline connection to the provider's equipment. The term includes,
without limitation, cellular and mobile telephones.

   B.   Prohibited Acts; Exception:

      1.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age shall not use a
wireless telephone, personal digital assistant, handheld computer, or
other similar device while operating a motor vehicle.

      2.   A person eighteen (18) years of age or older shall not use a
wireless telephone, personal digital assistant, handheld computer, or
other similar device for the purpose of engaging in text messaging or
other forms of manual data entry, typing, or transmission while
operating a motor vehicle.

      3.   The prohibitions of subsections B1 and B2 of this section
shall not apply to a person who is using the wireless telephone,
personal digital assistant, handheld computer, or other similar device
to contact a public safety entity or during an emergency.

   C.   Violation; Penalty:

      1.   A person who operates a motor vehicle in violation of
subsection B1 or B2 of this section commits a class A traffic
infraction, as that term is defined in Colorado Revised Statutes section
42-4-1701(3), as amended. Upon a first violation of this section, the
court shall assess a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). Upon a second or
subsequent violation of this section, the court shall assess a fine of
one hundred dollars ($100.00).

      2.   An operator of a motor vehicle shall not be cited for a
violation of subsection B1 of this section unless the operator was under
eighteen (18) years of age and a law enforcement officer saw the
operator use a "wireless telephone", "personal digital assistant",
"handheld computer", or other similar device, as those terms are defined
in subsection A of this section. An operator of a motor vehicle shall
not be cited for a violation of subsection B2 of this section unless the
operator was eighteen (18) years of age or older and a law enforcement
officer saw the operator use a wireless telephone, personal digital
assistant, handheld computer, or other similar device for the purpose of
engaging in text messaging or other similar forms of manual data entry,
typing, or transmission.

   D.   Seizure Of Device Not Authorized: The provisions of this section
shall not be construed to authorize the seizure and forfeiture of a
wireless telephone, personal digital assistant, handheld computer, or
other similar device, unless otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 496,
3-1-2010)

7-2-4: HELMET REQUIRED FOR MINORS RIDING CERTAIN VEHICLES:

   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms have
the following meanings:

    FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a
farm implement for drawing plows and mowing machines and other
implements of husbandry.

   MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE: Every motorcycle, including every motorscooter,
with a motor which produces not to exceed six (6) brake horsepower and
every bicycle with a motor attached, but not trail bikes, minibikes,
go-carts, golf carts, and similar vehicles which are not designed for or
approved by the Colorado department of transportation for use on the
public roads or highways and not motorized bicycles as defined in this
subsection.

   MOTOR SCOOTER AND MOTORBICYCLE: Every motor vehicle designed to
travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground,
except any such vehicle as may be included within the term "farm
tractor" as defined in this subsection and any "motorized bicycle" as
defined in this subsection, which motor vehicle is powered by an engine
of not to exceed six (6) brake horsepower.

   MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle designed to travel on not more than
three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, except any such vehicle as
may be included within the term "farm tractor" and except a "motorized
bicycle" as defined in this subsection.

   MOTORIZED BICYCLE: A vehicle having two (2) or three (3) wheels, a
cylinder capacity not exceeding fifty (50) cubic centimeters, and an
automatic transmission which produces a maximum design speed of not more
than thirty (30) miles per hour on a flat surface.

   B.   Use Of Helmet Required: A person less than eighteen (18) years
of age may not operate or carry a passenger who is less than eighteen
(18) years of age on a motorcycle, motor driven cycle, motor scooter,
motorbicycle, or motorized bicycle on any road, street, alley, or
highway within the town unless:

      1.   The person and the passenger are wearing protective helmets
of a type and design manufactured for use by operators of motorcycles;

      2.   The protective helmet conforms to the design and
specifications set forth in subsection C of this section; and

      3.   The protective helmet is secured properly on the person's
head with a chinstrap while the motorcycle, motor driven cycle, motor
scooter, motorbicycle, or motorized bicycle is in motion.

   C.   Helmet Standards: A protective helmet required to be worn by
this section shall:

      1.   Be designed to reduce injuries to the user resulting from
head impacts and to protect the user by remaining on the user's head,
deflecting blows, resisting penetration, and spreading the force of
impact;

      2.   Consist of lining, padding, and chinstrap; and

      3.   Meet or exceed the standards established in the United States
department of transportation federal motor vehicle safety standard no.
218, 49 CFR 571.218, for motorcycle helmets.

   D.   Additional Fee: An additional fee pursuant to section 7-2-2 of
this chapter shall be assessed and imposed and shall not be suspended
for any violation of this section. The fee assessed pursuant to section
7-2-2 of this chapter shall be remitted as set forth in section 7-2-2 of
this chapter. (Ord. 486, 4-7-2008)

CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS

SECTION:

7-3-1: Parking Of Certain Vehicles Unlawful; Definitions

7-3-2: Parking Allowed In Certain Specified Places In Residential Areas

7-3-3: Parking On Residential Streets

7-3-4: Violation; Penalty

7-3-1: PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES UNLAWFUL; DEFINITIONS:

It is unlawful for any person to park any of the following defined
vehicles on any residential property or street located in a residential
district in the town, except in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter:

CAMPER: A separate vehicle designed for human habitation at which can be
attached or detached from a pickup truck or automobile.

MOTOR HOME: A self-contained vehicle designed for human habitation, with
its own motor power, and with a passageway from the body of the home to
the driver's and front passenger seat.

TRAILER: A vehicle without motor power designed for carrying persons or
property on its own structure and to be drawn by a vehicle with motor
power. The term "trailer" includes trailer coach, semitrailer, travel
trailer or utility trailer. (1997 Code § 10.08.010)

7-3-2: PARKING ALLOWED IN CERTAIN SPECIFIED PLACES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:

It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle defined in section
7-3-1 of this chapter except in certain specified places as follows:

   A.   Carports: A detached or attached structure with a covered roof
containing one or more parking spaces and open on one or more sides. A
carport located upon a lot developed with a residential dwelling or
dwellings serve a similar use as a private garage.

   B.   Driveway: A permanently surfaced area on a lot designed and
required to provide direct access for vehicles between a street and
private garage, carport, or other permitted parking space or parking
area or loading area.

   C.   Private Garage: A detached accessory building located upon a lot
developed with a residential dwelling or dwellings, or a portion of the
main residential building, used by the occupant's resident upon the
premises, principally for the storage of passenger vehicles, and other
vehicles and equipment permitted to be located upon the lot.

   D.   Back Yard Or Side Yard: In areas zoned for residential purposes,
the vehicles may be stored outside of a garage but shall not be closer
than ten feet (10') to any building on the same lot, nor shall it be
stored closer than ten feet (10') to any adjoining lot or parcel of land
not owned by the owner of the subject lot, and in no event shall the
vehicle be stored in the front yard of any lot. (1997 Code § 10.08.020)

7-3-3: PARKING ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS:

   A.   Compliance With Local Or State Traffic And Zoning Regulations:
Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
parking of any vehicle on a street remains subject to the regulation of
parking established pursuant to the town or state traffic and zoning
regulations.

   B.   Exemptions: Any motor vehicle not exceeding twenty feet (20') in
length, except a commercial vehicle or motor truck, is exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.

   C.   Prohibitions Against Extended-Term Parking for Trailers,
Campers, Motor Homes, and Boats.

      1.   No trailer shall be detached from a towing vehicle and left
standing on the same block within in any public right of way adjacent to
any lot zoned AA Residential, A Residential, B Residential, or C
Residential, or to any lot within a mobile home subdivision or mobile
home park, for a period of longer than five (5) days.

      2.   No camper shall be unloaded from a motor vehicle and left
standing on the same block within in any public right of way adjacent to
any lot zoned AA Residential, A Residential, B Residential, or C
Residential, or to any lot within a mobile home subdivision or mobile
home park, for a period of longer than five (5) days.

      3.   No motor home shall be left standing on the same block within
any public right of way adjacent to any lot zoned AA Residential, A
Residential, B Residential, or C Residential, or to any lot within a
mobile home subdivision or mobile home park, for a period of longer than
five (5) days.

      4.   No boat, whether standing on a trailer or standing by itself,
shall be left standing on the same block within any public right of way
adjacent to any lot zoned AA Residential, A Residential, B Residential,
or C Residential, or to any lot within a mobile home subdivision or
mobile home park, for a period of longer than five (5) days.

   D.   Prohibition Against Obstructing Intersections. No person shall
park any motor vehicle exceeding twenty feet (20') in length, any
commercial vehicle or motor truck which is not a passenger vehicle
notwithstanding that such vehicle does not exceed twenty feet (20') in
length, or any nonmotorized vehicle attached or connected to a motor
vehicle, which together exceed twenty feet (20') in length measured from
the front of the motor vehicle to the end of the nonmotorized vehicle,
within twenty feet (20') of any intersection or in any manner which
obstructs the view of any driver approaching such any intersection.
(Ord. 565, 12-9-2019)

7-3-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:

Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding three hundred dollars
($300.00), or by imprisonment not exceeding ninety (90) days for each
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1997 Code §
10.08.040)

CHAPTER 4
GOLF CARS

SECTION:

7-4-1: Golf Car Defined

7-4-2: Operation Of Golf Cars Authorized

7-4-3: Registration Required; Fee

7-4-4: Restricted Operations

7-4-5: Operation Within Roadway

7-4-6: Violation; Penalty

7-4-1: GOLF CAR DEFINED:

GOLF CAR: A self-propelled vehicle not designed primarily for operation
on roadways and that has:

   A.   A design speed of less than twenty (20) miles per hour;

   B.   At least three (3) wheels in contact with the ground;

   C.   An empty weight of not more than one thousand three hundred
(1,300) pounds; and

   D.   A carrying capacity of not more than four (4) persons. (Ord.
519, 11-3-2014)

7-4-2: OPERATION OF GOLF CARS AUTHORIZED:

Subject to the provisions of this chapter, and except as prohibited
herein, the operation of golf cars within the town's corporate limits
shall be permitted; provided, however, that this authorization does not
permit the operation of golf cars on county roads outside of the town.
(Ord. 519, 11-3-2014)

7-4-3: REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEE:

   A.   Registration; Form: No golf car shall be operated in the town
without first being registered with the town clerk on such form and with
such information as shall be determined by the town clerk.

   B.   Registration Stickers: Upon such registration, the golf car
shall have affixed, as evidence of such registration, stickers on the
front and rear of the golf car.

   C.   Annual Renewal: Such registration shall be renewed annually in
the same month in which first registered.

   D.   Fee: The registration fee shall be thirty five dollars ($35.00)
and may be adjusted in the future by resolution of the board of
trustees. (Ord. 519, 11-3-2014)

7-4-4: RESTRICTED OPERATIONS:

Notwithstanding the authorization set forth in section 7-4-2 of this
chapter, the following restrictions shall apply to the operation of golf
cars within the town:

   A.   Age Restriction: No golf car shall be operated by any person
under the age of sixteen (16) years.

   B.   Driving Privileges Required: No golf car shall be operated by
any person unless such person holds valid driving privileges pursuant to
Colorado Revised Statutes title 42, or the equivalent under the law of
any other jurisdiction within the United States.

   C.   Use On Sidewalks And Trails Prohibited: No golf car shall be
operated upon any sidewalk, pedestrian trail or recreational facility
within the town, whether or not such trail or recreational facility is
operated under authority of the town, with the exception of golf courses
and associated golf facilities.

   D.   State And Federal Highway Use Prohibited: No golf car shall be
operated upon any portion of Colorado Highway 63 (Cedar Avenue) and U.S.
Highway 34 (1st Street) within the town's corporate limits.

   E.   Model Traffic Code Compliance: The operator of a golf car shall
obey all traffic and parking regulations otherwise applicable to motor
vehicles, including, but not limited to, the following parts of article
I of the model traffic code:

      1.   Part 1, section 107;

      2.   Part 6, sections 603(1), 608(1), 609, 614 and 615;

      3.   Part 7, all sections except sections 708 and 711;

      4.   Part 8, sections 802(1), 806, 807 and 808;

      5.   Part 9, all sections;

      6.   Part 10, all sections except sections 1010, 1011 and 1012;

      7.   Part 11, section 1101, except that the maximum speed of a
golf car shall not exceed twenty (20) miles per hour under any
circumstances, and section 1105;

      8.   Part 12, all sections except 1207 and 1210; and

      9.   Part 14, all sections except sections 1405, 1407.5, 1408, and
1412.

      10.   Every golf car operated on town streets shall be insured as
provided in section 1409 of the model traffic code.

   F.   Time Limitation; Headlamps: No golf car shall be operated
between sunset and sunrise or at any other time when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and
vehicles on the street are not clearly discernible at a distance of one
thousand feet (1,000') ahead, unless such golf car is equipped and
illuminated with headlamps, tail lamps, stop lamps and turn signals as
required under part 2 of article I of the model traffic code.

   G.   Display Of Slow Moving Vehicle Emblem: Every golf car operated
upon any road within the town shall at all times display the slow moving
vehicle emblem as required under article I, section 234 of the model
traffic code and as further regulated by the provisions of 1 CCR section
204-5. (Ord. 519, 11-3-2014)

7-4-5: OPERATION WITHIN ROADWAY:

Golf cars shall be operated as close to the right side of the roadway as
practicable, exercising due care when approaching, overtaking or passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction, or when
approaching, overtaking or passing a pedestrian or bicyclist. (Ord. 519,
11-3-2014)

7-4-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:

   A.   A violation of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in
section 1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 519, 11-3-2014; amd. 2016 Code)

   B.   Fines and fees for violation of this chapter may be set or
modified by resolution of the board of trustees from time to time. (Ord.
519, 11-3-2014)

TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY

CHAPTER 1
STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION

SECTION:

8-1-1: Authority For Construction

8-1-2: Permit Required; Specifications

8-1-3: Permit Application; Fee

8-1-4: Bond Required

8-1-5: Requirements For New Homes

8-1-6: Barricades And Lights

8-1-1: AUTHORITY FOR CONSTRUCTION:

All streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs, gutters and curb walks
constructed within the town shall be done only on authority of an
ordinance or on authority of a permit issued by the town administrator.
(1997 Code § 12.04.010)

8-1-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS:

   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person, other than those
under contract with the town, to construct, reconstruct, alter or repair
any street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter or curb walk without having
first obtained a permit from the town administrator.

   B.   Rules And Regulations: A complete set of rules and regulations
shall be prepared and approved by the board, describing the procedures,
precautions and specifications under which such work shall be done and
any other provisions deemed necessary to the best interests of the town
in connection therewith. (1997 Code § 12.04.020)

8-1-3: PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE:

   A.   Application For Permit; Required Information: Every person
desiring to construct, reconstruct, alter or repair any streets, alleys,
sidewalks, curbs, gutters or curb walks shall apply to the town
administrator for a permit therefor on a form provided by the town
stating the applicant's name, the location, length, dates of
commencement and completion of the work and a statement that the work
will be performed in strict compliance with the plans, specifications,
lines and grades approved or furnished by the town administrator. (1997
Code § 12.04.030)

   B.   Permit Fee: A permit fee, such amount to be determined by
resolution of the board of trustees, shall be paid to the town prior to
the issuance of a permit; provided, however, that the fee may be waived
by the town administrator, in his sole discretion, in the event of small
or minor installations or repairs. (1997 Code § 12.04.040; amd. 2016
Code)

8-1-4: BOND REQUIRED:

   A.   Bond Amount And Conditions: Every person applying for a permit
authorized by this chapter and prior to the issuance thereof shall file
a surety bond, good for one year in favor of the town in the penal sum
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of such work in strict compliance with the plans,
specifications, rules, regulations and ordinances of the town; that such
person will forthwith repair or replace any defective or unskilled work
and that such person will indemnify and save harmless the town against
and from any and all damages or claims for damages, loss, costs, charges
or expenses that may be brought against it by reason of such work.

   B.   Waiver Of Bond: The bond may be waived by the town administrator
in his sole discretion in the event of small or minor installation or
repairs. (1997 Code § 12.04.050)

8-1-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW HOMES:

All building permits issued for the construction of new residences on
lots located in all areas, excluding R residential, which do not already
have curb and gutter and sidewalks shall include the installation of
curb and gutter and sidewalks, and all such permits shall require the
construction of curb and gutter and sidewalks according to town
specifications. (1997 Code § 12.04.035)

8-1-6: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS:

Every person doing or causing to be done any of the work authorized by
this chapter shall keep the work barricaded at all times and, between
the hours of sunset and sunrise, he shall keep the same properly lighted
as to warn all persons thereof. (1997 Code § 12.04.060)

CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS

SECTION:

8-2-1: Authority Of Board Generally

8-2-2: Notice To Property Owners Of Action Of Board

8-2-3: Sidewalks Mandatory

8-2-4: Refusal By Owner To Install

8-2-5: Petition By Property Owners

8-2-6: Construction Under Supervision Of Town Administrator

8-2-7: Schedule Of Costs Of Improvements; Lien

8-2-8: Collection Of Delinquent Payments

8-2-9: Installation Of Mains

8-2-10: Maintenance; Keeping Clean

8-2-11: Disturbance Of Grade Stakes

8-2-1: AUTHORITY OF BOARD GENERALLY:

The board of trustees is authorized and empowered to construct and
maintain sidewalks, curbs and gutters or any one or more of such
improvements and provide for the payment of the expense thereof by
special assessments upon the adjacent or abutting property in the manner
designated and provided in this chapter. (1997 Code § 12.08.080)

8-2-2: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS OF ACTION OF BOARD:

Within three (3) days from the time the board orders the construction of
any sidewalks, curb or gutter, the town clerk shall mail a notice to or
otherwise actually notify the owners of the abutting property or their
agents of the action taken by the board concerning such improvements and
shall call for sealed bids for the construction of such improvements to
be presented to the board at its next regular meeting. The notice to the
property owners shall state the time and place of the opening of bids.
(1997 Code § 12.08.100)

8-2-3: SIDEWALKS MANDATORY:

   A.   Duty To Install: It shall be the duty of every owner of real
property within the town to provide, install and maintain a sidewalk,
curb and gutter, or curb walk in front of or upon his property, and in
such location as may be designated by the town administrator.

   B.   Compliance With Town Specifications: Such sidewalk, curb and
gutter, or curb walk shall be installed and constructed in strict
accordance with specifications to be provided by the town administrator.
(1997 Code § 12.08.040)

8-2-4: REFUSAL BY OWNER TO INSTALL:

   A.   Notice To Owner; Time Limit To Install: Whenever any owner of
property within the town shall refuse to install a sidewalk, curb and
gutter, or curb walk in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
the town administrator or chief of police, pursuant to authority given
by the board, shall give notice to such person directing him to install
same within ninety (90) days after receipt of the notice.

   B.   Installation By Town; Assessment Of Cost: In the event such
notice shall not be obeyed, the town administrator or chief of police
may order the installation and construction of such sidewalk, curb and
gutter, or curb walk and the costs and expenses thereof shall be
assessed against the responsible person. (1997 Code § 12.08.050)

8-2-5: PETITION BY PROPERTY OWNERS:

Whenever the owners of one-half (1/2) of the frontage upon any sidewalk,
curb or gutter of any street or specified portion of any street within
the town shall petition the board for the construction of such sidewalk,
curb or gutter or whenever a two-thirds (2/3) majority of all of the
members of the board shall decide that such improvements are necessary,
the board may at any regular meeting, by resolution, order the
construction of such sidewalk, curb or gutter and the cost of
construction thereof shall be apportioned between the owners of the
abutting property and the town as follows:

The town shall pay the cost of construction of such sidewalks, curbs and
gutters across all streets and alleys and the owners of the abutting
property shall pay all other costs of construction in proportion to the
number of feet each owner has of property fronting or abutting upon such
sidewalk, curb or gutter; provided, however, that the board shall not
order the construction of such improvements or any of them upon such
petition unless, in its opinion, the same will be for the best interests
of the town. (1997 Code § 12.08.090)

8-2-6: CONSTRUCTION UNDER SUPERVISION OF TOWN ADMINISTRATOR:

All sidewalks, curbs or gutters built within the town shall be
constructed according to this chapter and under the direction and
supervision of the town administrator. (1997 Code § 12.08.070)

8-2-7: SCHEDULE OF COSTS OF IMPROVEMENTS; LIEN:

   A.   Filing Of Schedule: After the completion of any sidewalk, curb
or gutter, as specified in this chapter and to the satisfaction of the
town administrator, the town administrator shall prepare and file with
the town clerk a schedule showing the whole cost of construction,
exclusive of the street and alley crossings, together with a schedule
showing the number of feet abutting on such improvements and the names
of the owners of each lot fronting or abutting thereon and showing the
number of feet each owner has fronting or abutting on such improvements.

   B.   Assess And Proportion Costs: After the schedule is placed in the
hands of the town clerk, he shall assess and proportion the cost of such
sidewalks, curb and gutter among the property owners according to the
number of feet of property each owner has fronting or abutting upon such
improvement.

   C.   Assessment A Lien: The amount so assessed shall become a valid
and subsisting lien against such fronting or abutting property and shall
be due and payable at the time of such assessment by the owner or owners
of such property. Such assessment must be paid within thirty (30) days
from the time it is made. (1997 Code § 12.08.110)

8-2-8: COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT PAYMENTS:

If the owners of any abutting property shall fail to pay to the town
clerk the amount assessed against him for the construction of curbs,
gutters or sidewalks within thirty (30) days from the time the
assessment is made, the town clerk shall certify the same to the county
treasurer, who shall place the same upon the tax list for the current
year and collect the same in the same manner as other taxes, with ten
percent (10%) penalty thereon to defray the cost of collection. Such
assessments shall be and remain a lien upon such lots or parcels of land
until paid by the owner. (1997 Code § 12.08.120)

8-2-9: INSTALLATION OF MAINS:

It shall be the duty of every person and every utility company to
install all mains, conduits, cables, poles and the like which may be
deemed necessary for water, gas, sewer, storm drainage, telephone and
electricity facilities prior to the installation, construction or paving
of any streets, alleys, sidewalks and curb walks. (1997 Code §
12.08.060)

8-2-10: MAINTENANCE; KEEPING CLEAN:

   A.   Maintenance: All sidewalks, curbs, gutters and curb walks shall
be maintained with an even surface in good repair and in conformity with
the established grade of the streets along which they are constructed.
(1997 Code § 12.08.010)

   B.   Duty To Keep Clean: It shall be the duty of all owners or
occupants of every premises within the town to keep the sidewalks,
gutters, curbs and curb walks in front of and adjacent to the tenements
and grounds occupied by them free and clear of snow, ice, mud, dirt,
debris, rubbish and filth. (1997 Code § 12.08.020)

8-2-11: DISTURBANCE OF GRADE STAKES:

It is unlawful for any person to remove or disturb any grade or line
stakes or marks set by the town administrator for the purposes specified
in this chapter. (1997 Code § 12.08.030)

CHAPTER 3
ENCROACHMENTS

SECTION:

8-3-1: Encroachments Prohibited

8-3-2: Notice And Removal Of Encroachments

8-3-1: ENCROACHMENTS PROHIBITED:

No encroachment or obstruction whatever, other than provided by law,
authorized by the board of trustees, or by ordinance of the town, shall
be made or placed upon any street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, curb
walk or other public place within the town. (1997 Code §12.12.010)

8-3-2: NOTICE AND REMOVAL OF ENCROACHMENTS:

   A.   Notice; Time Limit For Removal: Whenever any encroachments or
obstruction including ice, snow, mud, dirt, debris, rubbish and filth,
is made, located, permitted or maintained contrary to this chapter, the
town administrator or the town’s law enforcement designee, shall give
notice to the person who made, caused or permitted same, or to the
person who owns or controls the premises on which same is located or
connected, directing such person to remove such encroachment or
obstruction within four (4) hours after receipt of the notice.

   B.   Removal By Town; Assessment Of Costs: In the event such notice
shall not be obeyed, the town administrator or chief of police may order
the removal of the encroachment or obstruction and the costs and
expenses of such removal shall be assessed against the responsible
person. (1997 Code § 12.12.020; amd. Ord. 576, 6-7-2021)

CHAPTER 4
EXCAVATIONS

SECTION:

8-4-1: Authority And Supervision

8-4-2: Permit Required; Specifications

8-4-3: Permit Application

8-4-4: Commencement And Completion

8-4-5: Barricades And Lights

8-4-6: Width And Minimum Inconvenience To Public

8-4-7: Sidewalks And Gutters Clear

8-4-1: AUTHORITY AND SUPERVISION:

All work on any excavation, cut, trench or opening in or under any
street, curb, gutter, curb walk, alley or other public place shall be
done only on authority of a permit issued by the town administrator and
such work shall be supervised by the town administrator. (1997 Code
§12.16.010)

8-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS:

   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person, other than those
under contract with the town, to excavate, cut, open or trench in or
under any street, sidewalk, curb, gutter, curb walk, alley or other
public place without having first obtained a permit from the town
administrator.

   B.   Rules And Regulations: A complete set of rules and regulations
shall be prepared by the town administrator and approved by the board
describing the procedures, precautions and specifications under which
the excavation work and backfilling shall be done and any other
provisions deemed necessary to the best interests of the town in
connection therewith. (1997 Code §12.16.020)

8-4-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:

Every person desiring to do any excavation work shall apply to the town
administrator for a permit therefor on a form provided by the town,
stating the applicant's name, the location, length, width and purpose of
the proposed excavation, the amount of the permit fee, the dates of
commencement and completion of the work and a statement that the work
will be performed in strict compliance with the plans, specifications,
and procedures furnished by the town administrator. (1997 Code
§12.16.030)

8-4-4: COMMENCEMENT AND COMPLETION:

   A.   Time Of Commencement: All work authorized by a permit issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be commenced within a reasonable time
after issuance of the permit and shall be diligently and continuously
performed until completion.

   B.   Stoppage Of Work; Order Excavation Refilled: In the event that
weather, process of law, or any other unexpected obstacles shall cause
work to be stopped for so long a time that public travel shall be
unreasonably obstructed, the town administrator may order the excavation
refilled and repaved as if the work contemplated in the permit were
actually completed. (1997 Code §12.16.040)

8-4-5: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS:

Every person making or causing to be made any excavation shall keep the
excavation barricaded at all times and, between the hours of sunset and
sunrise, he shall keep such excavation properly lighted so as to warn
all persons thereof. (1997 Code §12.16.050)

8-4-6: WIDTH AND MINIMUM INCONVENIENCE TO PUBLIC:

   A.   Width Allowing Street Access: No opening or excavation shall be
undercut or have a greater width at the bottom than at the top. In no
case shall more than one-half (1/2) of the width of any street, alley or
other public place be opened or excavated at any one time, and in all
cases, one-half (1/2) of such street, alley or other public place shall
remain untouched for the accommodation of traffic until the other
one-half (1/2) is restored for safe use.

   B.   Minimum Inconvenience: All such work shall be performed in such
way as to cause minimum inconvenience and restriction to the public and
to both pedestrian and vehicular traffic. (1997 Code §12.16.060)

8-4-7: SIDEWALKS AND GUTTERS CLEAR:

It is unlawful for any person performing any excavation work to place
any dirt or other materials upon any sidewalk or in any gutters, and
such work shall be performed so as to permit the free passage of water
along the gutters. (1997 Code §12.16.070)

CHAPTER 5
PAVING ALLEYS

SECTION:

8-5-1: Petition Of Property Owners

8-5-2: Compliance With Grade; Materials

8-5-3: Notice To Property Owners To Construct Or Repair

8-5-4: Assessment Of Costs When Owner Fails To Construct Or Repair

8-5-1: PETITION OF PROPERTY OWNERS:

Whenever the owners of the majority of the frontage of the lots or land
adjacent to or abutting upon any alley or designated portion thereof
within the town shall petition the board of trustees for the grading of
alley or the grading and paving of such alley, the board shall
immediately order the grading or grading and paving to be done. (1997
Code §12.20.010)

8-5-2: COMPLIANCE WITH GRADE; MATERIALS:

   A.   Construction Material: All paving constructed in any of the
alleys in the town shall be constructed of either concrete or asphaltum
and the same shall cover the entire surface of the alley, except as
hereinafter provided, and shall be laid with a firm and permanent
foundation of suitable material, according to the specifications of the
town administrator.

   B.   Grade: Such paving shall be laid upon the established grade of
the alleys and in all respects be under the supervision and to the
satisfaction of the town administrator.

   C.   Repairs: Paving shall be repaired with the same kind of material
as that used in the construction thereof. (1997 Code §12.20.020)

8-5-3: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR:

   A.   Notice; Time Limit To Comply: Whenever the board shall order the
grading or paving of any alley or portion thereof or the construction or
repair of any pavement, the town administrator shall forthwith serve a
written or printed notice upon the owner or agent of each lot or parcel
of land fronting upon, adjacent to or abutting upon such pavement or
alley to be so graded or paved, requiring him to grade, construct or
repair as much thereof as abuts the lot or parcel of land owned by him
or for which he is agent within thirty (30) days from the date of the
service of such notice, in case of grading and construction, and in
fifteen (15) days in case of repair of such pavement, according to the
plans and specifications provided by the town administrator and under
the direction and to the satisfaction of the town administrator.

   B.   Nonresidents; Publication Of Notice: In case the owner of any
such parcel of land or lot is a nonresident and has no agent in the town
upon whom such notice can be served, the town administrator shall
publish a notice of like tenor and effect for a period of two (2) weeks
in a newspaper of general circulation in the town. (1997 Code
§12.20.030)

8-5-4: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS WHEN OWNER FAILS TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR:

   A.   Construction Or Repair By Town; Costs; Lien:

      1.   In case the owner or agent fails to grade such alley or to
construct or repair such pavement within the time specified in the
notice provided for by this chapter, the town administrator may cause
the same to be done under the direction of the town and shall, upon the
completion of such work, make out and deliver to the town clerk a
certificate showing the cost thereof and a description of the property
adjacent to or abutting upon such work and pavement, the name of the
parties who performed the work or furnished the materials therefor and
the amounts owing to each.

      2.   The board shall, at their next regular meeting, assess the
cost of such grading, construction or repair of such pavement against
the land adjacent to or abutting upon such pavement or grading,
specifying the exact amount so assessed.

      3.   The expense of the construction or repair of such pavement is
assessed against such property and is made and declared to be a lien
against the same until the agreement is paid.

   B.   Hearing; Appeal By Landowner; Failure To Pay Assessment:

      1.   Upon filing with the town clerk of any such certificate and
the assessment by the board, the board shall designate and set a time
and place when and where such land or lot owner may appear before the
board and be heard as to the justness and correctness of the amount so
certified and assessed against his lot or parcel of land. (1997 Code
§12.20.040)

      2.   The town clerk shall then cause to be published in some
newspaper of general circulation in the town, for a period of ten (10)
days, a notice to such lot owner or landowners, setting forth the time
and place so fixed and when and where he or they may appear before the
board for the purpose of an appeal. At the time and place mentioned in
such notice, the board shall meet and hear and consider any and all
complaints of any lot owner affected by such assessments, and correct
any errors, and remedy any injustice there may be in any such
certificate and assessment. (1997 Code §12.20.040; amd. 2016 Code)

      3.   In case the owner of any lot or parcel of land shall fail to
pay any such assessment to the town clerk within thirty (30) days after
the meeting of the board mentioned in subsection A2 of this section, the
same shall be certified to the county treasurer to be placed upon the
tax roll for the current year and collected in the same manner as other
taxes assessed upon such property. (1997 Code §12.20.040)

CHAPTER 6
TREES

SECTION:

8-6-1: Planting And Maintenance

8-6-2: Trimming Trees

8-6-3: Species And Location

8-6-4: Collection Of Costs Of Trimming By Town

8-6-1: PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE:

It shall be the obligation of each property owner within the town to
plant, water and maintain all trees and other vegetation in the parking
area, being the area between the lot line and the curb line, to the
front and on the side of property owned by the property owner within the
town. (1997 Code §12.24.010)

8-6-2: TRIMMING TREES:

Every property owner shall be responsible for the trimming of trees in
the parking in front and at the side of his property and also along the
alley adjoining his property. The trees shall be kept trimmed at all
times so that there is a clearance of at least fourteen feet (14')
between the surface of the street or alley and the overhanging branches.
(1997 Code §12.24.020)

8-6-3: SPECIES AND LOCATION:

All trees hereafter planted in the parking area along the streets of the
town and in the parks thereof shall be planted under the supervision of
the town administrator. Only such species as may be approved by the town
will be planted, and only in such spacing or arrangement as may be
approved by the town. (1997 Code §12.24.030)

8-6-4: COLLECTION OF COSTS OF TRIMMING BY TOWN:

   A.   Trimming By Town; Assessment Of Cost: In the event any property
owner shall fail or neglect to trim the trees or maintain parking as
provided by sections 8-6-1 through 8-6-3 of this chapter, then the town
board may order the work done by the town and the whole cost thereof,
plus five percent (5%) for inspection and other incidentals, shall be
paid to the town clerk within thirty (30) days after mailing by the town
clerk to the owner of the property, by registered or certified mail,
notice of the assessment of such cost.

   B.   Failure To Pay; Lien: Failure to pay such assessment within such
period of thirty (30) days shall cause such assessment to become a lien
against such property and shall have priority over all liens, except
general taxes and prior special assessments, and the same may be
certified at any time, after such failure to so pay the same within
thirty (30) days, by the town clerk to the county treasurer to be placed
upon the tax list for the current year and to be collected in the same
manner as other taxes are collected, with ten percent (10%) penalty to
defray the cost of collection. (1997 Code §12.24.040)

CHAPTER 7
TOWN CEMETERY

SECTION:

8-7-1: Establishment; Administration And Supervision

8-7-2: Duties Of Superintendent

8-7-3: Rules And Regulations; Fees

8-7-4: Map And Records; Burial Permits

8-7-5: Applications For Burial Spaces; Contract

8-7-6: Space Fees; Cemetery Trust Fund

8-7-7: Perpetual Care Defined; Cost

8-7-8: Transfer, Assignment Or Conveyance Of Property Right

8-7-9: Selling Lots Or Spaces For Resale

8-7-10: Rights And Interest In Lot Or Space Reverting To Town

8-7-11: Interments

8-7-12: Erection Of Monuments, Markers And Vaults

8-7-13: Fences; Decorations; Planting Vegetation

8-7-14: Prohibitions Within Cemetery

8-7-15: Closing Driveways; Establishing Grades

8-7-16: Nonliability Of Town For Acts Of Trespassers

8-7-17: Abandoned Plots Revert To Town

8-7-1: ESTABLISHMENT; ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION:

   A.   Cemetery Established: There is established as the town cemetery
the following described property:

The North 710 feet of the East Half, Northeast Quarter of Section seven,
Township Two North, Range Fifty-two West.

   B.   Administration And Supervision: The administration and
supervision of the town cemetery shall be by direction of the town
administrator through a superintendent appointed by him, who will employ
such other persons as may be necessary for the care and maintenance of
the town cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.010)

8-7-2: DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT:

   A.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the superintendent to dig
graves, supervise funerals, set monuments or markers, supervise all
decoration of lots and graves, plant and care for all vegetation,
maintain and repair driveways and walks, endeavor to prevent the
defacing, destruction or damage of monuments, markers and other property
in the cemetery and carry out and enforce the rules and regulations of
the cemetery.

   B.   Burial; Report Location Of Grave: After each burial, the
superintendent shall report to the town clerk in writing in detail the
location of the grave. (1997 Code §12.28.030)

8-7-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS; FEES:

   A.   Adoption By Board:

      1.   The board of trustees shall adopt rules and regulations not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter governing the cemetery,
which rules and regulations shall be on file and available for public
examination in the office of the town clerk.

      2.   Failure to comply with any rule or regulation promulgated
under this chapter shall be deemed a violation of this code. (1997 Code
§12.28.020)

   B.   Fees: Fees for opening graves, disinterring bodies, and use of
equipment shall be governed by the rules and regulations of the
cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.130)

8-7-4: MAP AND RECORDS; BURIAL PERMITS:

   A.   Keeping Map And Records; Permit Issuance:

      1.   It shall be the duty of the town clerk to keep a map and the
records of the cemetery and issue required permits.

      2.   No permits shall be issued without the name and address of
the lot owner and the lot and block number for which application is
made. Burial permits shall be addressed to the superintendent giving the
lot and block number for burial and time of the funeral.

   B.   Time Of Application: The town clerk shall require application
for all burial permits to be made at least eight (8) working hours
before the funeral and shall not issue permits for funerals less than
one hour apart. (1997 Code §12.28.040)

8-7-5: APPLICATIONS FOR BURIAL SPACES; CONTRACT:

Applications for the purchase of burial spaces shall contain a
description of the space, purchase price and method of payment, and when
executed by the purchaser and the town, it shall become a binding
contract of purchase and sale. Upon payment of the full purchase price
to the town, a cemetery deed by the town, executed by the mayor
conveying the space free and clear of all encumbrances shall be executed
and delivered to the purchaser. (1997 Code §12.28.050)

8-7-6: SPACE FEES; CEMETERY TRUST FUND:

   A.   Price Of Spaces: The sale price of grave spaces shall be:

 

  ---------- ---------------- ---------------------
             Lot Only Price   With Perpetual Care
  1 space    $100.00          $180.00
  2 spaces   200.00           320.00
  3 spaces   300.00           460.00
  4 spaces   400.00           600.00
  5 spaces   500.00           740.00
  6 spaces   600.00           880.00
  ---------- ---------------- ---------------------

 

   B.   Cemetery Trust Fund: The fees set forth in this section and
subsection 8-7-7B of this chapter shall be placed into the cemetery
trust fund established by the town. (Ord. 504, 9-6-2011)

8-7-7: PERPETUAL CARE DEFINED; COST:

   A.   Perpetual Care Defined: The term "perpetual care" means the
cutting of the grass at reasonable intervals; the raking and cleaning of
the plots; the general care and pruning of the trees and shrubs that may
be placed along the walks, roadways and boundaries by the town. The term
shall not include the maintenance, repair or replacement of any
gravestones, monuments or memorials; nor the planting of flowers or
ornamental plants; nor the maintenance or doing of any special or
unusual work in the cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.140)

   B.   Obtaining Perpetual Care; Cost:

      1.   All persons purchasing cemetery spaces shall pay a cost of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per space for the actual space, and a
onetime fee for perpetual care in the following amount:

 

  ---------- ---------
  1 space    $ 80.00
  2 spaces   120.00
  3 spaces   160.00
  4 spaces   200.00
  5 spaces   240.00
  6 spaces   280.00
  ---------- ---------

 

      2.   The fees set forth in this subsection B shall, from time to
time, be established by resolution of the board of trustees.

      3.   The fees set forth in this subsection B shall be placed into
the cemetery trust fund established by the town. (Ord. 504, 9-6-2011)

8-7-8: TRANSFER, ASSIGNMENT OR CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY RIGHT:

No transfer, assignment or conveyance of any property right or interest
in the town cemetery shall be valid without the consent in writing of
the town. The town shall not consent to the transfer of any property
right or interest in the town cemetery upon which there is any
indebtedness due the town. (1997 Code §12.28.070)

8-7-9: SELLING LOTS OR SPACES FOR RESALE:

No lot or space shall be sold to or purchased by a funeral director or
other persons for purposes of resale or speculation. (1997 Code
§12.28.080)

8-7-10: RIGHTS AND INTEREST IN LOT OR SPACE REVERTING TO TOWN:

In the event a lot or space is vacated by reason of bodies being removed
therefrom, all right and interest in the lot or space shall revert to
the town. (1997 Code §12.28.090)

8-7-11: INTERMENTS:

   A.   Town Authority To Allow Interments: Applications and permission
for interment, interment charges and payments, and permissible use of
burial space shall be governed by the rules and regulations of the
cemetery. It shall be conclusively presumed, unless written notification
to the contrary is filed with the town clerk, that the purchase of any
space in the town cemetery is being acquired for family use, and the
town shall have the right, without obtaining any interment permit from
the owners, to allow interment in such space of any members of the
family of the owners.

   B.   Interments In Akron Cemetery Only: Under no circumstance shall
interment be allowed in any location within the town, other than
designated spaces at the Akron Cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.100)

8-7-12: ERECTION OF MONUMENTS, MARKERS AND VAULTS:

All monuments or markers shall be placed at least six inches (6") inside
the space lines and shall be made of granite, marble or real bronze and
shall be erected upon a foundation. Erection, construction,
specifications, materials and placing of marker foundations, monuments,
vaults and corner stones shall be governed by the rules and regulations
of the cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.110)

8-7-13: FENCES; DECORATIONS; PLANTING VEGETATION:

Fences, railings, hedges and other obstructions and decorations other
than flowers, vases, wreaths and flags are prohibited, and will be
removed without notice. All decoration of lots or spaces and planting of
vegetation within the cemetery shall be under the control, supervision
and direction of the superintendent, who will be governed by the rules
and regulations of the cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.120)

8-7-14: PROHIBITIONS WITHIN CEMETERY:

No person in the town cemetery shall:

   A.   Drive or ride any machine or animal on lots, lawns or walks.

   B.   Drive an automobile or other vehicle in excess of twenty (20)
miles per hour or such lesser speed as shall be prudent under the
conditions and circumstances then existing. (1997 Code §12.28.190)

   C.   Picnic or discard paper boxes and other unsightly articles in
the cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.190; amd. 2016 Code)

   D.   Cause any employee to do work for lot owners without an order
from the superintendent or give to any employee any valuable
consideration to do work for a lot owner.

   E.   Do work on the grounds, except by permission of the
superintendent.

   F.   Perform or cause to be performed a burial in the cemetery on
Sunday, Christmas, Thanksgiving or Memorial Day.

   G.   Hunt or in any way disturb the birds or fowl or discharge any
firearms, fireworks or other missiles within or over any portion of the
cemetery or around the gates, fences or roads adjoining the same, except
as a part of military funerals or similar occasion.

   H.   Take any animal or permit any animal to be taken into the
cemetery.

   I.   Deface, damage, destroy or injure any monuments, markers or
other property or thing in the town cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.190)

8-7-15: CLOSING DRIVEWAYS; ESTABLISHING GRADES:

The town shall have the right to close any walk or driveway in the
cemetery heretofore existing or hereafter constructed and to establish
grades. (1997 Code §12.28.200)

8-7-16: NONLIABILITY OF TOWN FOR ACTS OF TRESPASSERS:

The town shall not be liable for any act of lot owners, visitors,
licensees or trespassers within the cemetery or for any damage to person
or property while within the town cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.210)

8-7-17: ABANDONED PLOTS REVERT TO TOWN:

Any cemetery plot for which perpetual care has not been paid shall be
deemed to have been abandoned, and title to any unused portion of said
lot shall revert to the town, which shall have the right to make resale
of such lot, plot or unused portion thereof. (1997 Code §12.28.180)

CHAPTER 8
PARKS

SECTION:

8-8-1: Definitions

8-8-2: Authority To Establish

8-8-3: Rules And Regulations

8-8-4: Daily Park Hours

8-8-5: Destruction Of Park Property

8-8-6: Erection Of Tents And Buildings

8-8-7: Lighting Fires

8-8-8: Riding Or Leading Animals

8-8-9: Huckstering

8-8-1: DEFINITIONS:

For the purpose of this chapter, the following words, unless the context
requires otherwise, shall have the following meanings:

PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any
other area in the town, either now existing or which shall be
subsequently acquired in accordance with the provisions of section 8-8-2
of this chapter, owned or used by the town, and devoted to active or
passive recreation.

PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.

TOWN: The town of Akron. (1997 Code §12.32.020)

8-8-2: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH:

The town, which is incorporated under the laws of the state, shall have
authority to acquire, establish and maintain in the manner provided for
by state law, public parks or pleasure grounds, boulevards, parkways,
avenues and roads. (1997 Code §12.32.010)

8-8-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:

The town administrator is empowered and authorized to adopt rules and
regulations for the management, operation and control of parks, parkways
and recreational areas. (1997 Code §12.32.090)

8-8-4: DAILY PARK HOURS:

   A.   Hours: The city park, the library grounds, and the swimming pool
park will be open daily from five o'clock (5:00) A.M. until nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M. All other municipal parks shall be open daily to the public
from five o'clock (5:00) A.M. until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.

   B.   Extend Time Limits By Permit: No person not an employee of the
parks shall remain in any of them at any other time; provided, however,
that the town administrator may, by permit first having been obtained,
extend or limit the times herein specified. (1997 Code §12.32.030)

8-8-5: DESTRUCTION OF PARK PROPERTY:

It is unlawful to cut, mark, remove, break or climb upon, or in any way
injure, damage or deface the trees, shrubs, plants, turf, or any of the
buildings, fences, bridges or other structures or property within or
upon park premises; or in any other way injure or impair the natural
beauty or usefulness of any park or recreation area. (1997 Code
§12.32.040)

8-8-6: ERECTION OF TENTS AND BUILDINGS:

It is unlawful to build or place any tent, building, booth, stand or
other structure in or upon any of the parks, parkways or other
recreational facilities without first having obtained a permit to do so
from the town administrator. (1997 Code §12.32.050)

8-8-7: LIGHTING FIRES:

   A.   Prohibition; Exception: It is unlawful to light, make or use any
unenclosed picnic or trash fire within the parks, parkways or other
recreation facilities owned or operated by the town; provided, however,
that this section shall not apply to authorized park employees.

   B.   Certain Fires Allowed: Fires may only be built in fireplaces or
on grills constructed for that purpose in such areas and under such
rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the town administrator.
(1997 Code §12.32.060)

8-8-8: RIDING OR LEADING ANIMALS:

It is unlawful for any person to ride or lead any horse or other
livestock in any public park or recreational area except upon paths or
other ways expressly provided and posted for that purpose. (1997 Code
§12.32.070)

8-8-9: HUCKSTERING:

It is unlawful to offer any goods, services or things for sale within
parks, parkways or recreational facilities, or on the streets and
sidewalks within three hundred feet (300') of the boundary of the same
without first having obtained a license or permit to do so in the manner
and pursuant to the terms and conditions fixed by the town board. (1997
Code §12.32.080)

TITLE 9
PUBLIC UTILITIES

CHAPTER 1
UTILITIES GENERALLY

SECTION:

9-1-1: Lien Procedure For Unpaid Bills

9-1-1: LIEN PROCEDURE FOR UNPAID BILLS:

   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases, when used
in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:

    COST OF COLLECTING: The service charge which will be required to be
paid in addition to full payment of the bill. Such service charge shall
be the greater of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or the actual costs of
attorney fees, filing expenses, labor, and any other cost incurred as a
result of collection or filing a lien with the Washington County
treasurer.

   LANDOWNER: The landowner of property as listed on the records of the
Washington County assessor as well as legal representatives, assigns,
authorized agents, and successors in interest of the landowner of record
of the property served by the town.

   UTILITY SERVICE CHARGES: All charges applicable to water, sewer,
sanitation collection services and all charges applicable to any other
town services as are designated as utility charges by this code or any
other ordinance of the town.

   B.   Landowner Liability: Except as provided in subsection E of this
section, the landowner of every premises, building, lot, house, or
dwelling unit is liable for all charges for utility services furnished
to the premises, building, lot, house, or dwelling unit.

   C.   Prior And Superior Lien: All utility service charges, together
with interest and the cost of collecting them, if any, are a lien that
is prior and superior to all other liens, claims, titles, and
encumbrances, whether prior in time or not, except liens for general
taxes, and remain a lien upon the property to which utility services are
delivered from the date such charges, together with interest and the
cost of collecting them, if any, become due until they are paid.

   D.   Enforcement Of Lien: The town may enforce the lien against the
property or the liability against the landowner in an action at law or
an action to enforce the lien. If any person in possession of any
premises, building, lot, house, or other dwelling unit pays the entire
charges due and owing, the payment relieves the landowner from such
liability and the premises, building, lot, house, or dwelling unit from
the lien. But the town is not required to look to any person other than
the landowner of the premises, building, lot, house, or other dwelling
unit for the payment of the charges.

   E.   Multi-Family Dwellings: For condominiums, town homes, and any
such multi-family dwellings to which utility services are furnished by
means other than by metering the consumption of each dwelling unit, the
lien for the unpaid utility service charges, interest, and costs of
collection, if any, imposed by subsection B of this section attaches
upon each dwelling unit an amount computed by dividing the total amount
of the lien by the number of dwelling units.

   F.   Change Of Ownership Or Occupation: No change of ownership or
occupation shall be deemed to affect the application of this section or
any of its provisions. The failure of any landowner to learn that the
landowner purchased any property against which a lien for unpaid utility
services exists does not affect the landowner's liability for such
payment in full and is not a basis for any claim of any kind whatsoever
against the town for refusing to turn on utility services until the
charges are paid in full.

   G.   Collection Remedies: If any landowner fails or refuses to pay
when due any tax, charge, or assessment imposed by this section, any
other ordinance of the town, or this code, the town clerk may, in
addition to taking other collection remedies, certify due and unpaid
taxes, charges, and assessments, including interest and cost of
collection, to the Washington County treasurer to be levied against the
landowner's property for collection by the county in the same manner as
delinquent general taxes upon such property are collected.

   H.   Hearing To Contest Town Authority:

      1.   Before certifying taxes, charges, interest, cost of
collection, and assessments to the county for collection as prescribed
by subsection G of this section and if requested by the landowner in
writing, the town clerk shall provide to the landowner an opportunity
for a hearing to contest the authority of the town to incur the taxes,
charges, or assessments or the amount thereof. The town clerk shall
conduct such hearing as a quasi-judicial hearing.

      2.   The town clerk shall mail the notice to the landowner by
first class mail addressed to the last known landowner of the property
as listed on the records of the Washington County assessor.

      3.   If, after a hearing, the town clerk's decision affirms the
imposition of charges, the decision shall include notice that the
charges are due and payable within ten (10) days of the date of the
decision and that, if not paid when due, the charges will be certified
to the Washington County treasurer for collection.

   I.   Notice Of Certification: Whenever the town clerk certifies any
tax, charge, interest, cost of collection, or assessment to the
Washington County treasurer for collection, the town clerk shall record
notice of such certification to the Washington County clerk and
recorder.

   J.   Perpetual Lien; Collection:

      1.   Any tax, charge, or assessment imposed by this section, any
other ordinance of the town, or this code, together with interest and
cost of collection, if any, if not paid by the due date specified,
constitutes a perpetual lien on the property to which service was
delivered.

      2.   The attachment of such lien is not dependent on the recording
of written notice, and the lien is prior and superior to all other
liens, claims, titles, and encumbrances whether or not prior in time
except liens for general taxes. The lien remains attached to the
property from the date the fees and charges became due until the
delinquent fees and charges, together with interest and costs of
collection, if any, are paid.

      3.   When the tenant in possession of the property served or any
third person pays the utility bill, it relieves the landowner from the
obligations and lien imposed by this section, but the town is not
required to seek payment of utility charges from any person other than
the landowner. No change of ownership, occupation, or possession affects
the application of this section, and the failure of any landowner to
discover that he or she purchased property against which a lien for
utility services exists in no way affects such landowner's liability for
payment in full.

      4.   The town may enforce the lien by a suit for foreclosure and
sale of the property subject to the lien. The proceeds of the sale shall
be applied to the unpaid fees and charges and allowable costs in the
manner provided for foreclosure of statutory liens. The lien may also be
enforced by certification of assessment upon the property to the county
treasurer for collection by the county in the same manner as delinquent
general taxes and special assessments upon such property are collected
or by any other means provided by law.

      5.   Delinquent utility service charges together with interest and
cost of collection may also be collected by civil suit against the
landowner of the property served at any time after the charges become
delinquent. The remedies provided in this section are cumulative and
supplemental to each other. (Ord. 475, 4-4-2005)

CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM

SECTION:

9-2-1: Creation Of Water Department

9-2-2: Town Authority And Powers

9-2-3: Town Clerk Duties; Receipts And Deposits

9-2-4: Inspections

9-2-5: Regulations Part Of Contract

9-2-6: Application For Permit For Water Connection

9-2-7: Tapping Charges And Requirements

9-2-8: Metering Of Water

9-2-9: Service Line Regulations

9-2-10: Water Rates

9-2-11: Billing And Delinquency Procedures

9-2-12: Waste Of Water Prohibited

9-2-13: Use Curtailed During Fire Alarms

9-2-14: Limitation On Water Use

9-2-15: Unauthorized Tampering

9-2-16: Cross-Connection And Backflow Prevention Program

9-2-1: CREATION OF WATER DEPARTMENT:

There is created and established a water department of the town for the
purpose of management, maintenance, care and operation of the waterworks
of the town. (1997 Code § 13.04.010)

9-2-2: TOWN AUTHORITY AND POWERS:

   A.   Town Administrator: The town administrator shall have the
immediate control and management of all things pertaining to the town
waterworks system, and he shall perform all acts that may be necessary
for the prudent, efficient and economical management and protection of
said waterworks, subject to the approval and confirmation of the board
of trustees.

   B.   Town Board: The town board of trustees shall have the power to
prescribe such other and further rates, rules and regulations as it may
deem necessary. (1997 Code § 13.04.020)

9-2-3: TOWN CLERK DUTIES; RECEIPTS AND DEPOSITS:

The town clerk shall keep a correct account of all receipts, make out
all bills for water rents and materials furnished to consumers, collect
the same, and deposit the proceeds so collected with the town treasurer
to the credit of the waterworks fund of the town, and in accordance with
the direction of the board. (1997 Code § 13.04.030)

9-2-4: INSPECTIONS:

Whenever in the judgment of the administrator he deems it necessary, he
may inspect the premises or buildings of any water consumer for the
purpose of examining the condition of all pipes, motors, meters and
water fixtures, of the manner in which the water is used. He shall be
vigilant to protect and remedy all abuses whether from waste or other
improper use of water. (1997 Code § 13.04.040)

9-2-5: REGULATIONS PART OF CONTRACT:

All regulations contained in this chapter shall be considered a part of
the contract of every person taking water from the waterworks of the
town, and every person taking water shall be considered as having
expressly consented to be bound thereby. (1997 Code § 13.04.180)

9-2-6: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT FOR WATER CONNECTION:

An application may be made to the town clerk for a permit to have tapped
the street mains forming a part of the town waterworks. If granted, such
permit shall be signed by the officer in his official capacity, shall
set forth the name of the person for whose benefit such permit shall be
granted, and the size of the stop for discharging the water from the
mains to the service pipes, and, as near as may be, the point at which
such tapping shall be done and the place to which the water is to be
thus conducted, and such officer shall keep a record of all such permits
in a book kept for that purpose in his office, which record shall set
forth the substance of every permit. (1997 Code § 13.04.050)

9-2-7: TAPPING CHARGES AND REQUIREMENTS:

   A.   Meter Deposit: Upon the application for a new tap and service
connection by any consumer within the corporate limits of the town, the
applicant shall pay a meter deposit in an amount set forth by resolution
of the board of trustees. (1997 Code § 13.04.060; amd. 2016 Code)

   B.   Tapping Installation; Trenching: The tap shall be installed by
the town. All necessary trenching and backfilling shall be at the
expense of the applicant and under the supervision of the town
administrator.

   C.   Ownership Of Line: The town shall own and maintain the water
line from the main to the curb box and the property owner shall own and
maintain the service line from the curb box to the premises served.

   D.   Work By Licensed Plumber: All work upon the service line shall
be performed by a licensed plumber. (1997 Code § 13.04.060)

9-2-8: METERING OF WATER:

   A.   Location Of Meter: All water sold by the town shall be metered
by meters which may be installed either in a curb box or inside of the
building at the option of the property owner.

   B.   Meters Owned By Town: All water meters shall be owned and kept
in repair by the town. (1997 Code § 13.04.080)

9-2-9: SERVICE LINE REGULATIONS:

   A.   No more than one building shall be permitted to use a water
service line.

   B.   Only copper or its equivalent approved by the town administrator
or his representative shall be used for the installation of a service
line and all service lines shall be installed at a depth at least forty
inches (40") below the surface of the ground.

   C.   Each service line shall contain a stop and waste cock where the
water may be turned off. (1997 Code § 13.04.090)

9-2-10: WATER RATES:

All water sold by the town shall be sold at a rate set forth each year
when the following year's annual budget is adopted. (1997 Code §
13.04.120; amd. 2016 Code)

9-2-11: BILLING AND DELINQUENCY PROCEDURES:

   A.   Billing; Due Date:

      1.   Water meters shall be read around the twentieth day of each
month, as nearly as possible, and bills shall be mailed so as to reach
the customer on or around the first day of the following month.

      2.   All water bills shall be due on or before the fifteenth day
of the month following the reading of the meter. (1997 Code § 13.04.130;
amd. 2016 Code)

   B.   Failure To Pay; Water Disconnection: If any consumer does not
pay for water, sewer fees, or garbage collection fees so used by him by
the twenty fifth day of the following month, then and in that event the
town administrator shall forthwith disconnect the consumer from town
water and the water shall not again be furnished until all services used
by the consumer shall be fully paid for. (1997 Code § 13.04.140; amd.
2016 Code)

   C.   Payment Of All Charges Before Reconnection: In case there shall
be any water rent, sewer fees or garbage collection fees delinquent and
the supply of water has been turned off, the water shall not be turned
on again until all such delinquent rents or fees have been paid. (1997
Code § 13.04.150)

   D.   Fees And Rates Charged Against Property: All water rents, sewer
fees and garbage collection fees shall be charged against the property
served and against the owner thereof, and if for any cause any sums
owing therefor become delinquent, the water shall be cut off and in no
case shall it be turned on to the same property until such delinquencies
shall have been paid in full. Change of ownership or occupation shall
not affect the application of this chapter. (1997 Code § 13.04.160)

   E.   Charge For Turning Water On: If the water supply to any premises
is turned off for nonpayment of water bill, sewer fees or garbage
collection fees, a charge of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be made for
turning the water back on, provided said work is done during regular
working hours on Monday through Friday; further, the charge shall be
thirty dollars ($30.00) if the work has to be done outside of regular
working hours. (1997 Code § 13.04.170; amd. 2016 Code)

9-2-12: WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED:

   A.   Prohibited Acts: Consumers shall prevent unnecessary waste of
water and keep all water outlets closed when not in actual use.
Hydrants, urinals, water closets, bathtubs and other fixtures must not
be left running for any purpose other than the use for which they were
intended.

   B.   Turning Off Water: In addition to the penalty provided therein
for code violations, the water supply may be turned off where any such
waste occurs. (1997 Code § 13.04.100)

9-2-13: USE CURTAILED DURING FIRE ALARMS:

During all alarms of fire, the use of hose and all outlets where a
constant flow of water is maintained is discouraged. (1997 Code §
13.04.110; amd. 2016 Code)

9-2-14: LIMITATION ON WATER USE:

   A.   Town Authority: The town administrator shall have full power and
authority to limit the use of water for irrigating purposes, whenever he
deems it necessary or expedient.

   B.   Notice Of Limitation: In the event of any limitation on the use
of water for sprinkling or irrigation, notice of the limitation shall be
published in one issue of the official newspaper of the town. From and
after giving the notice, such order shall be effective and all consumers
shall comply therewith. (1997 Code § 13.04.190)

9-2-15: UNAUTHORIZED TAMPERING:

No person shall tap, tamper or otherwise disturb any water main, curb
cock, meter or other property of the town used in connection with its
water plant and supply system, and no one shall use water from the town
plant unless a qualified consumer who has duly made application to the
town clerk as hereinabove provided; provided, however, that this shall
not apply to the town administrator or a licensed plumber in the
discharge of his duties. (1997 Code § 13.04.200)

9-2-16: CROSS-CONNECTION AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION PROGRAM:

   A.   Applicability. This Sub-Section 16 applies to all commercial,
industrial and multi-family residential service connections within the
public water system and to any persons outside the Town who are, by
contract or agreement with the public water system, users of the public
water system. This Sub-section 16 does not apply to
single-family-residential service connections unless the public water
system becomes aware of a cross connection at the single-family
connection.

   B.   Definitions.

ACTIVE DATE:

The first day that a backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention
method is used to control a cross-connection in each calendar year.

AIR GAP:

A physical separation between the free flowing discharge end of a
potable water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving
vessel installed in accordance with standard AMSE A112.1.2.

BACKFLOW:

The undesirable reversal of flow of water or mixtures of water and other
liquids, gases or other substances into the public water systems
distribution system from any source or sources other than its intended
source.

BACKFLOW CONTAMINATIO N EVENT:

Backflow into a public water system from an uncontrolled cross
connection such that the water quality no longer meets the Colorado
Primary Drinking Water Regulations or presents an immediate health
and/or safety risk to the public.

BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY:

Any mechanical assembly installed at a water service line or at a
plumbing fixture to prevent a backflow contamination event, provided
that the mechanical assembly is appropriate for the identified
contaminant at the cross connection and is an in-line field-testable
assembly.

BACKFLOW PREVENTION METHOD:

Any method and/or non-testable device installed at a water service line
or at a plumbing fixture to prevent a backflow contamination event,
provided that the method or non-testable device is appropriate for the
identified contaminant at the cross connection.

CERTIFIED CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL TECHNICIAN:

A person who possesses a valid Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester
certification from one of the following approved organizations: American
Society of Sanitary Engineering (ASSE) or the American Backflow
Prevention Association (ABPA). If a certification has expired, the
certification is invalid.

CONTAINMENT:

The installation of a backflow prevention assembly or a backflow
prevention method at any connection to the public water system that
supplies an auxiliary water system, location, facility, or area such
that backflow from a cross connection into the public water system is
prevented.

CONTAINMENT BY ISOLATION:

The installation of backflow prevention assemblies or backflow
prevention methods at all cross connections identified within a
customer’s water system such that backflow from a cross connection into
the public water system is prevented.

CONTROLLED:

Having a properly installed, maintained, and tested or inspected
backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method that prevents
backflow through a cross connection.

CROSS CONNECTION:

Any connection that could allow any water, fluid, or gas such that the
water quality could present an unacceptable health and/or safety risk to
the public, to flow from any pipe, plumbing fixture, or a customer’s
water system into a public water system’s distribution system or any
other part of the public water system through backflow.

MULTI-FAMILY:

A single residential connection to the public water system’s
distribution system from which two or more separate dwelling units are
supplied water.

SINGLE-FAMILY:

i.   A single dwelling which is occupied by a single family and is
supplied by a separate service line; or

ii.   A single dwelling comprised of multiple living units where each
living unit is supplied by a separate service line.

UNCONTROLLED:

Not having a properly installed and maintained and tested or inspected
backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method, or the
backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method does not
prevent backflow through a cross connection.

WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM:

A water distribution system, piping, connection fittings, valves and
appurtenances within a building, structure, or premises. Water supply
systems are also referred to commonly as premise plumbing systems.

 

   C.   Requirements.

      1.   Commercial, industrial and multi-family service connections
shall be subject to a survey for cross connections. If a cross
connection has been identified an appropriate backflow prevention
assembly and or method shall be installed at the customer’s water
service connection within 120 days of its discovery. The assembly shall
be installed downstream of the water meter or as close to that location
as deemed practical by the public water system. If the assembly or
method cannot be installed within 120 days the public water system must
take action to control or remove the cross connection, suspended service
to the cross connection or receive an alternative compliance schedule
from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.

      2.   In no case shall it be permissible to have connections or
tees between the meter and the containment backflow prevention assembly.

         a.   In instances where a reduced pressure principle backflow
preventer cannot be installed, the owner must install approved backflow
prevention devices or methods at all cross-connections within the
owner’s plumbing system.

      3.   Backflow prevention assemblies and methods shall be installed
in a location which provides access for maintenance, testing and repair.

      4.   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed in manner subject to flooding.

      5.   Provisions shall be made to provide adequate drainage from
the discharge of water from reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assemblies. Such discharge shall be conveyed in a mater which
does not impact waters of the state.

      6.   All assemblies and methods shall be protected to prevent
freezing. Those assemblies and methods used for seasonal services may be
removed in lieu of being protected from freezing. The assemblies and
methods must be reinstalled and then tested by a certified
cross-connection control technician upon reinstallation.

      7.   Where a backflow prevention assembly or method is installed
on a water supply system using storage water heating equipment such that
thermal expansion causes an increase in pressure, a device for
controlling pressure shall be installed.

      8.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested at the
time of installation and on an annual schedule thereafter. Such tests
must be conducted by a Certified Cross-Connection Control Technician.

      9.   The public water system shall require inspection, testing,
maintenance and as needed repairs and replacement of all backflow
prevention assemblies and methods, and of all required installations
within the owner’s plumbing system in the cases where containment
assemblies and or methods cannot be installed.

      10.   All costs for design, installation, maintenance, testing and
as needed repair and replacement are to be borne by the customer.

      11.   No grandfather clauses exist except for fire sprinkler
systems where the installation of a backflow prevention assembly or
method will compromise the integrity of the fire sprinkler system.

      12.   For new buildings, all building plans must be submitted to
the public water system and approved prior to the issuance of water
service. Building plans must show:

         a.   Water service type, size and location

         b.    Meter size and location

         c.   Backflow prevention assembly size, type and location

         d.   Fire sprinkler system(s) service line, size and type of
backflow prevention assembly.

            (1)   All fire sprinkling lines shall have a minimum
protection of an approved double check valve assembly for containment of
the system.

            (2)   All glycol (ethylene or propylene), or antifreeze
systems shall have an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
preventer for containment.

            (3)   Dry fire systems shall have an approved double check
valve assembly installed upstream of the air pressure valve.

            (4)   In cases where the installation of a backflow
prevention assembly or method will compromise the integrity of the fire
sprinkler system the public water system can chose to not require the
backflow protection. The public water system will measure chlorine
residual at location representative of the service connection once a
month and perform periodic bacteriological testing at the site. If the
public water system suspects water quality issues the public water
system will evaluate the practicability of requiring that the fire
sprinkler system be flushed periodically.

      13.   The following is a partial list of facilities which require
backflow prevention. The type of backflow device for any water service
serving multiple uses shall be based on the most restrictive use. The
list includes, but is not limited to:

         a.   Apartment houses.

         b.   Auto repair garages.

         c.   Car washes.

         d.   Department stores.

         e.   Exterminators and veterinary clinics.

         f.   Facilities with boilers, condenser water or chilled water
systems.

         g.   Fire sprinkler with or without chemical additives.

         h.   Food processing plants.

         i.   Hospitals, medical clinics, dental clinics, health
clinics, morgues, mortuaries, nursing homes.

         j.   Hotels and motels.

         k.   Laundries and dry cleaners.

         l.   Plating operations.

         m.   Photo developing.

         n.   Radiator and battery shops.

         o.   Restaurants.

         p.   Restricted, classified, or other facilities closed to
inspection.

         q.   Sand, gravel, and concrete plants.

         r.   Schools with instructional laboratories.

         s.   Swimming pools.

         t.   Commercial farms.

   D.   Ownership. Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed
downstream of the water meter and shall be owned by and shall be the
responsibility of the customer of the water enterprise.

   E.   Installation and Costs. Customers of the water enterprise
requiring backflow prevention assemblies shall pay all costs associated
with installation and testing of the appropriate size and type of
backflow preventer under private contract. For newly constructed
facilities, backflow preventers shall be installed prior to the final
plumbing inspection so that the device can be included as part of the
inspection. Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in
accordance with the Colorado Cross-Connection Control Manual, latest
edition.

   F.   Inspection, Testing, and Repair.

      1.    Backflow prevention assemblies or methods shall be tested by
a Certified Cross-Connection Control Technician upon installation and
tested at least annually, thereafter. The tests shall be made at the
expense of the customer.

         a.   Any backflow prevention assemblies or methods that are
non-testable, shall be inspected at least once annually by a certified
cross-connection control technician. The inspections shall be made at
the expense of the customer.

      2.   As necessary, backflow prevention assemblies or methods shall
be repaired and retested or replaced and tested at the expense of the
customer whenever the assemblies or methods are found to be defective.

      3.   Testing gauges shall be tested and calibrated for accuracy at
least once annually.

   G.   Reporting and Recordkeeping.

      1.   Copies of records of test reports, repairs and retests, or
replacements shall be kept by the customer for a minimum of three (3)
years.

      2.   Copies of records of test reports, repairs and retests shall
be submitted to the public water system by mail, facsimile or e-mail by
the testing company or testing technician.

      3.   Information on test reports shall include, but may not be
limited to,

         a.   Assembly or method type

         b.   Assembly or method location

         c.   Assembly make, model and serial number

         d.   Assembly size

         e.   Test date; and

         f.   Test results including all results that would justify a
pass or fail outcome

         g.   Certified cross-connection control technician
certification agency

         h.   Technician’s certification number

         i.   Technician’s certification expiration date

         j.   Test kit manufacturer, model and serial number

         k.   Test kit calibration date

   H.   Right of Entry. A properly credentialed representative of the
public water system shall have the right of entry to survey any and all
buildings and premises for the presence of cross-connections for
possible contamination risk to and for determining compliance with this
section. This right of entry shall be a condition of water service in
order to protect the health, safety and welfare of customers throughout
the public water system’s distribution system.

   I.   Compliance.

      1.   Customers shall cooperate with the installation, inspection,
testing, maintenance, and as needed repair and replacement of backflow
prevention assemblies and with the survey process. For any identified
uncontrolled cross-connections, the public water system shall complete
one of the following actions within 120 days of its discovery:

         a.   Control the cross connection

         b.   Remove the cross connection

         c.   Suspend service to the cross connection

      2.   The public water system shall give notice in writing to any
owner whose plumbing system has been found to present a risk to the
public waters system’s distribution system through an uncontrolled cross
connection. The notice and order shall state that the owner must install
a backflow prevention assembly or method at each service connection to
the owner’s premises to contain the water service. The notice and order
will give a date by which the owner must comply.

         a.   In instances where a backflow prevention assembly or
method cannot be installed, the owner must install approved backflow
prevention assemblies or methods at all cross-connections within the
owner’s water supply system. The notice and order will give a date by
which the owner must comply.

   J.   Non-Compliance and Enforcement. In emergency situations when the
public potable water supply is being contaminated or is in immediate
danger of contamination, the water service to the customer will be
discontinued by the water enterprise. Delivery of water to any water
customer may be discontinued by the water enterprise if any protective
device required by this division has not been installed, or is
defective, or has been removed or bypassed. Discontinued water service
shall not resume until conditions at the consumer’s premise have been
abated or corrected to the satisfaction of the water enterprise.

   K.   Violations and Penalties. Any violation of the provisions of
this ordinance, shall, upon conviction be punishable as provided in all
applicable statues, laws, and regulations. (Ord. 559, 6-3-2019)

CHAPTER 3
SEWER SERVICE SYSTEM

SECTION:

9-3-1: Definitions

9-3-2: Rules And Regulations

9-3-3: Connection With Sanitary Sewer Required; Exception

9-3-4: Connection Permit Requirements; Fee

9-3-5: Construction Of Sewers

9-3-6: Discharge Of Nonacceptable Wastes Into Sewer Prohibited

9-3-7: Use Of Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors

9-3-8: Control Manhole Required

9-3-9: Abandonment Of Connection

9-3-10: Interference With Town Employees; Digging Up Streets

9-3-11: Prohibited Acts

9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:

For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:

NONACCEPTABLE WASTES: The following wastes:

   A.   Any water or waste having a five (5) day biological oxygen
demand which may contain more than one thousand (1,000) parts per
million by weight as averaged during any twelve (12) hour period.

   B.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.

   C.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.

   D.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
rags, feathers, tar, plastics, woods, paunch manure, grit, brick,
cement, onyx, carbide or any other solid or viscous substance capable of
obstruction of the flow of the sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works.

   E.   Any water or waste having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works.

   F.   Any water or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantities to injure or interfere with sewage process,
constituting a hazard to humans or animals or creating any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.

   G.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such
character or quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle such material at the sewage treatment plant.

   H.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.

SANITARY SEWAGE: The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories,
sinks, bathtubs, showers, household laundries, cellar flood drains,
bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigeration drips, drinking fountains
and any other waterborne waste not constituting an industrial waste.
(1997 Code § 13.08.010; amd. 2016 Code)

9-3-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:

   A.   The board of trustees shall make and enforce such rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary for the safe, efficient and
economical management of the town sewer system.

   B.   Such rules and regulations, when not repugnant to this code or
any other ordinances of the town and laws of the state, shall have the
same force and effect as ordinances of the town. (1997 Code § 13.08.160)

9-3-3: CONNECTION WITH SANITARY SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:

   A.   Privies, Septic Tanks Restricted: Except where otherwise
provided, no person shall maintain within the town any privy, privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended for use for the
disposal of sewage.

   B.   Private Sewage Disposal System:

      1.   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, the building
sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying
with the provisions and recommendation of the department of public
health of the state.

      2.   Such private sewage disposal system shall be constructed,
maintained and operated at all times in a sanitary manner.

   C.   Connection To Public Sanitary Sewer When Available: At such time
as a public sanitary sewer becomes available to property served by a
private sewage disposal system, a direct system connection shall be made
to the public sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and any septic tank, cesspool or similar sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material. (1997
Code § 13.08.020)

9-3-4: CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEE:

   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to open, uncover
or in any manner make connection with any sewer main or line of the
town, or to lay drain or sewer pipes on any premises or in any street or
alley in the town without first obtaining a written permit therefor from
the town administrator. (1997 Code § 13.08.030)

   B.   Application For Permit: The application for the permit shall be
in writing and shall contain the following information:

      1.   Name and address of applicant.

      2.   Name and address of owner of the premises where the
connection is to be made; drain or line is to be laid.

      3.   Location of the proposed connection, drain or sewer pipes.

      4.   Statement as to the type of connection and type of materials
to be discharged into the sewer.

      5.   Statement as to whether the connection is to be made to the
storm sewer or the sanitary sewer. (1997 Code § 13.08.040)

   C.   Issuance Of Permit:

      1.   If the proposed connection does not violate any provision
herein and does not violate any other laws of the town, the town clerk
shall issue a permit for such connection.

      2.   Such permit shall contain all information contained in the
application and shall specify the type and kind of grease and sand traps
to be used. (1997 Code § 13.08.050)

   D.   Tapping Fee: At the time of filing the application, the
applicant shall pay a tapping fee as set forth by resolution of the
board of trustees for the connection to the sewer of any property. (1997
Code § 13.08.060; amd. 2016 Code)

9-3-5: CONSTRUCTION OF SEWERS:

   A.   User Responsible For Personal Sewer Line: Any user of the sewer
system, either inside or outside of the corporate limits, must build his
own sewer line if there is no line available for him to connect with.

   B.   Connection To Town Sewer System: All connections to the town's
sewer system must be made by a licensed plumber, subject to the
supervision and inspection of the town administrator, and in compliance
with the state plumbing code. (1997 Code § 13.08.070)

9-3-6: DISCHARGE OF NONACCEPTABLE WASTES INTO SEWER PROHIBITED:

The discharge of nonacceptable wastes into the town sewer system whether
directly or indirectly is prohibited, and where investigation reveals
the presence in the system of nonacceptable wastes emanating from any
lot, land, building or premises, the owner, lessor, renter or occupant
of such lot, land, building or premises shall be, at his own expense,
required to treat, neutralize or in other ways prepare the noxious
substance therein to the satisfaction of the town administrator in order
to convert the same into acceptable wastes. (1997 Code § 13.08.080)

9-3-7: USE OF GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:

   A.   Interceptors Required; Exception: Grease, oil and sand
interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the town
administrator, they are necessary for the proper handling of any liquid
waste containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable waste,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptor shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.

   B.   Type And Capacity; Accessibility: All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the town administrator, and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. (1997 Code § 13.08.090)

9-3-8: CONTROL MANHOLE REQUIRED:

   A.   When required by the town administrator, the owner of any
property served by a building sewer carrying industrial waste shall
install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate
observation and sampling of the waste.

   B.   Such manholes, when required, shall be accessible and safely
located and shall be constructed in accordance with the plans approved
by the town administrator.

   C.   The manholes shall be installed by the owner at his expense and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(1997 Code § 13.08.100)

9-3-9: ABANDONMENT OF CONNECTION:

   A.   Permit Required: No person shall abandon any building connection
without first obtaining a written permit therefor.

   B.   Sealing Abandoned Sewer: Such building connection shall be
effectively sealed with a vitrified clay stopper inserted in the bell of
the sewer extending to the property line which stopper shall be jointed
as directed by the town administrator. (1997 Code § 13.08.110)

9-3-10: INTERFERENCE WITH TOWN EMPLOYEES; DIGGING UP STREETS:

   A.   Interference With Town Employees: No person shall in any way
interfere with the employees of the town in any discharge of their
duties either in the tapping of any sewer pipe, main or lateral.

   B.   Digging Up Street; Permit Required: No person shall dig up or
cause to be dug up any street or alley in the town for the purpose of
connecting with the sewer system of the town, without first obtaining a
permit, and no person having a permit shall dig up any portion of any
street or alley of the town for the purpose of connecting with the sewer
system of the town and fail or neglect to place the street or alley in
its original condition. (1997 Code § 13.08.120)

9-3-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:

   A.   Deposit Of Unsanitary Wastes On Property: No person shall
deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public
or private property within the town, or within any area within the
jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal excrement wastes. (1997
Code § 13.08.130)

   B.   Deposit Of Untreated Industrial Waste Into Natural Outlets: No
person shall discharge into any natural outlet within the town, or any
area within the jurisdiction of the town, any sanitary sewer industrial
waste or other polluted waste, except where suitable treatment has been
provided. (1997 Code § 13.08.140)

   C.   Damaging Or Tampering With Sewers: No person shall maliciously,
wilfully or negligently break, damage or destroy, uncover, deface or
tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of
the town sanitary sewer system. (1997 Code § 13.08.150)

CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

SECTION:

9-4-1: Definitions

9-4-2: Collection By Town; Fee

9-4-3: Container Requirements

9-4-4: Rental Housing

9-4-5: Billing; Delinquencies

9-4-6: Bagging Animal Waste

9-4-7: Uncovered Garbage

9-4-8: Windblown Refuse

9-4-9: Deposits On Streets

9-4-10: Consent Of Owner For Dumping Of Garbage

9-4-11: Disposal Of Garbage And Refuse

9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:

As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:

ASHES: Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.

GARBAGE: Waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food; waste from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.

REFUSE: Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper,
cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings,
wood furniture, bedding; noncombustible trash, including, but not
limited to, metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of
rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery, other mineral wastes;
street rubbish, including, but not limited to, street sweepings, dirt,
leaves, catch basin dirt, contents of litter receptacles; provided,
refuse shall not include earth and wastes from building operations, nor
shall it include solid wastes resulting from industrial processes and
manufacturing operations such as food processing wastes, boiler house
cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings. (1997 Code § 8.16.010)

9-4-2: COLLECTION BY TOWN; FEE:

   A.   Collection Of Garbage: The town administrator shall have charge
of the collection of garbage, refuse and ashes in the town. The
collection shall be made from all premises at least once a week, weather
permitting; provided, that the material is properly stored for
collection in a container complying with the provisions of this chapter.

   B.   Fee Set By Board: The fee for private residences, commercial
establishments, and other business places shall be such as may be set
from time to time by the town board. (1997 Code § 8.16.070)

9-4-3: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:

   A.   Container Construction; Capacity: All garbage, refuse and ashes
for collection by the town shall be placed in metal or plastic
containers designed for the storage of such garbage, refuse and ashes
and designed so that they can be lifted and carried by one man. No such
container shall have a capacity of less than ten (10) gallons or more
than ninety (90) gallons.

   B.   Commercial Establishments: All commercial establishments and
other business places which produce garbage, refuse and ashes for
collection by the town in an amount deemed by the town administrator to
be excessive in quantity shall place its garbage, refuse and ashes in
containers designed for said purpose, equipped with a cover and with a
structure so that they may be lifted and dumped by the garbage truck
presently operated by the town. No such container shall have a capacity
that the town garbage truck cannot properly lift and deposit. (1997 Code
§ 8.16.080; amd. 2016 Code)

9-4-4: RENTAL HOUSING:

The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all structures in the town
containing three (3) or more rental dwelling units, and the owner of
such building or structure, or part thereof, shall be responsible for
conforming to the requirements of this chapter. All such owners shall be
required to place on their premises sufficient metal or plastic
containers for the use of his tenants. If a sufficient amount of
garbage, refuse and ashes exists as shall be determined by the town
administrator, the town may require such owner to provide a container
suitable for commercial establishments and other business places, as set
forth in subsection 9-4-3B of this chapter. (1997 Code § 8.16.090; amd.
2016 Code)

9-4-5: BILLING; DELINQUENCIES:

   A.   Time For Billing: Bills for the collection of garbage, refuse
and ashes shall be sent out at such times as may be directed by the town
board. (1997 Code § 8.16.100; amd. 2016 Code)

   B.   Failure To Pay Bill; Service Stopped:

      1.   When an occupant or owner of any premises fails to pay the
fee for removal of garbage, refuse or ashes, the town administrator
shall notify the occupant or owner of this fact and shall refuse further
collection until the required fee is paid.

      2.   The fact that garbage, refuse or ashes remains on any
occupant's premises in the town in violation of this chapter shall be
prima facie evidence that the occupant of such premises is responsible
for the violation of this chapter occurring. (1997 Code § 8.16.110)

9-4-6: BAGGING ANIMAL WASTE:

All animal, fowl and rodent waste will be bagged in a plastic bag prior
to being placed in metal or plastic containers designed for storage,
which container shall be covered. (1997 Code § 8.16.081; amd. 2016 Code)

9-4-7: UNCOVERED GARBAGE:

It is unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the town any
garbage, or other materials subject to decay other than leaves or grass,
excepting in a tightly covered metal or plastic container intended for
such purpose. (1997 Code § 8.16.020)

9-4-8: WINDBLOWN REFUSE:

It is unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate any dust, ashes or trash
of such a material that it can be blown away by wind anywhere in the
town excepting in a covered container. (1997 Code § 8.16.030)

9-4-9: DEPOSITS ON STREETS:

It is unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any
garbage, refuse or ashes on any public street or alley in the town;
provided, that this section shall not be construed to prohibit placing
garbage, refuse or ashes in a container complying with the provisions of
this chapter preparatory to having such material collected and disposed
of in the manner provided herein. (1997 Code § 8.16.040)

9-4-10: CONSENT OF OWNER FOR DUMPING OF GARBAGE:

It is unlawful to dump or place any garbage, refuse or ashes on any
premises or in any container in the town without the consent of the
owner of such premises or container. (1997 Code § 8.16.050)

9-4-11: DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE:

It is unlawful to dispose of any garbage, refuse or ashes anywhere in
the town excepting in a disposal device, properly constructed and
operated, or in a lawfully established garbage or refuse dump. Such
material not so properly disposed of shall be placed in containers for
collection by the town as herein prescribed. (1997 Code § 8.16.060)

TITLE 10
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT

CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUILDING PROVISIONS

SECTION:

10-1-1: Building Inspector; Fees

10-1-2: Interpretation Of Provisions

10-1-3: Standards Maintained

10-1-4: Stop Orders

10-1-1: BUILDING INSPECTOR; FEES:

   A.   Appointment: At its first regular meeting following each
biennial election, the board of trustees shall appoint a qualified
person as building inspector.

   B.   Duties: The building inspector shall be the chief enforcement
officer for all building regulations contained in this title, including
the various codes adopted herein by reference, except the fire
prevention code. He shall make the required inspections, and he shall
perform such other duties as the board may direct.

   C.   Fees: All fees provided herein shall be paid to the town clerk
and deposited in the general fund. (1997 Code § 15.04.010)

10-1-2: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:

Wherever in the building code or other codes contained in this title it
is provided that anything must be done for the approval of or subject to
the direction of, the inspecting agents or any other officer of the
town, this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion
of determining whether the rules and standards established by ordinance
or the respective codes have been complied with; and no such provision
shall be construed as giving any officer or agent discretionary powers
as to such conditions and things not prescribed by ordinance or code, or
to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discriminatory
manner. (1997 Code § 15.04.030)

10-1-3: STANDARDS MAINTAINED:

All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and
other structures and any form of work done in connection therewith shall
be performed in a good, workmanlike manner according to accepted
standards and practices in the trade. (1997 Code § 15.04.040)

10-1-4: STOP ORDERS:

   A.   Issuance Of Stop Order; Notice: Whenever any work is being done
in violation of the provisions of this title, or in variance with the
terms of any permit issued for such work, the building inspector or his
agent may order all work on the job stopped until such violation or
variance is eliminated and any work or installation made in violation of
this title corrected. Such stop order, if oral, shall be followed by a
written order within twenty four (24) hours (excluding Saturday, Sunday
or holidays).

   B.   Violation Of Stop Order: It is unlawful to do or perform any
work in violation of such stop order, except as may be necessary to
prevent injury or damage to persons or property.

   C.   Revocation Of Order: Such stop order may be revoked by the
building inspector or his agent, the mayor, or the board of trustees.
(1997 Code § 15.04.020)

CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODE

SECTION:

10-2-1: Code Adopted

10-2-2: Revisions To Adopted Code

10-2-3: Violations; Penalties

10-2-1: CODE ADOPTED:

   A certain document, one (1) copy of which is on file in the office of
the town clerk, being marked and designated as the International
Building Code, 2018 edition, including chapters 1 through 35, inclusive,
and appendices C, E, G, H, I, and J, as published by the International
Code Council, 5203 Leesburg Pike, Suite 600, Falls Church, VA
22041-3401, be and is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the town
for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all
property, buildings, and structures; by providing the standards for
supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary, and
fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition of such
structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said Building Code on
file in the office of the town clerk are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in
section 10-2-2 of this chapter.

(Ord. 514, 1-6-2014; amd. Ord. 589, 6-5-2023)

10-2-2: REVISIONS TO ADOPTED CODE:

The following sections of the code adopted in section 10-2-1 of this
chapter are hereby revised:

Section 101.1. Insert: Town of Akron, Colorado

Section 105.2. Delete: Building: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, & 12

Section 105.5. Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid
unless the work on the site authorized by such permit is commenced
within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the
site by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days
after the time the work is commenced.

A permit shall be valid for a period of twelve (12) months, and the
building official shall cancel the permit at the end of the twelve-month
period, except in the following circumstances:

            (1)   If an applicant makes a showing at the time of the
application that the work is substantial and is likely to take longer
than twelve (12) months, then a permit valid for a period longer than
twelve (12) months, but no more than three (3) years, may be issued.

            (2)   If a permittee notifies the building official prior to
the expiration of the twelve-month period, the building official is
authorized to grant, in writing, one or more extensions of time, for
periods not more than 180 days each. The extension shall be requested in
writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.

            (3)   If, after a permit has expired or has been cancelled,
the work remains incomplete and one or more inspections is required to
be performed, a new permit must be applied for and granted before the
work can proceed and inspections performed.

Section 1612.3. Insert: Town of Akron, Colorado

Section 1612.3. Insert: April 1, 1988

Section 3412.2. Insert: February 3, 2014

(Ord. 548, 1-3-2018)

10-2-3: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:

   A.   Violations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a person, firm
or corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain
any building or structure in the Town, or cause or permit the same to be
done, in violation of the Building Code or any other Construction Code
of the Town. (Ord. 514, 1-6-2014)

   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm or corporation who shall
violate any of the provisions of the Building Code, as adopted and
amended herein, or any other Construction Code of the Town, or who shall
fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder, or who shall build, construct, fabricate, or
install anything in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications of plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, or who shall fail to comply
with such an order within the time fixed therein, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of
competent jurisdiction, within the required time, shall severally for
each and every such violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section 1-4-1 of this Code.
The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a
reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each day that a
violation occurs or that a prohibited condition is maintained shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 514, 1-6-2014; amd. 2016 Code)

   C.   Removal Of Prohibited Condition: The application of the above
penalty or penalties shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal
of any prohibited condition. (Ord. 514, 1-6-2014)

CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL CODE

SECTION:

10-3-1: Code Adopted

10-3-2: Revisions To Adopted Code

10-3-3: Violations; Penalties

10-3-1: CODE ADOPTED:

A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the Office of the
Town Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Residential
Code, 2009 edition, including chapters 1 through 43, inclusive, and
appendices B, C, D, E, G, H, J, and K, as published by the International
Code Council, 5203 Leesburg Pike, Suite 600, Falls Church, VA
22041-3401, be and is hereby adopted as the Residential Code of the Town
for regulating and governing the construction, alteration, movement,
enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, location, removal, and
demolition of detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple-,
single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three (3) stories in
height with separate means of egress as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and
all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of
said Residential Code on file in the Office of the Town Clerk are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if
any, prescribed in section 10-3-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 515, 1-6-2014)

10-3-2: REVISIONS TO ADOPTED CODE:

The following sections of the code adopted in section 10-3-1 of this
chapter are hereby revised:

Section R101.1. Insert: Town of Akron, Colorado

Section R105.2. Delete: Building: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 9

Section R105.5. Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid
unless the work on the site authorized by such permit is commenced
within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the
site by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days
after the time the work is commenced.

A permit shall be valid for a period of twelve (12) months, and the
building official shall cancel the permit at the end of the twelve-month
period, except in the following circumstances:

            (1)   If an applicant makes a showing at the time of the
application that the work is substantial and is likely to take longer
than twelve (12) months, then a permit valid for a period longer than
twelve (12) months, but no more than three (3) years, may be issued.

            (2)   If a permittee notifies the building official prior to
the expiration of the twelve-month period, the building official is
authorized to grant, in writing, one or more extensions of time, for
periods not more than 180 days each. The extension shall be requested in
writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.

            (3)   If, after a permit has expired or has been cancelled,
the work remains incomplete and one or more inspections is required to
be performed, a new permit must be applied for and granted before the
work can proceed and inspections performed.

Table R301.2(1). Insert: Ground Snow Load = 20; Wind Speed = 90;
Topographic Effects = No; Seismic Design Category = C; Weathering =
Severe; Frost Line Depth = 30; Termite = Slight-Moderate; Winter Design
Temp. = 0; Ice Shield Underlayment Required = No; Flood Hazards = 76/04;
Air Freezing Index = 0-1000; Mean Annual Temp. = 47

Section R313.1. shall be modified as follows:

R313.1. Townhouse Automatic Fire Sprinkler System. Effective February 3,
2014, an automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall be installed
in all townhouses.

Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be
required when additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses
that do not have an automatic residential fire sprinkler system
installed.

Section R313.2. One- And Two-Family Dwellings Automatic Fire Systems.
(Deleted)

Section P2603.6.1. Insert 12"

(Ord. 549, 1-3-2018)

10-3-3: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:

   A.   Violations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a person, firm
or corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain
any building or structure in the Town, or cause or permit the same to be
done, in violation of the Residential Code or any other Construction
Code of the Town. (Ord. 515, 1-6-2014)

   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm or corporation who shall
violate any of the provisions of the Residential Code, as adopted and
amended herein, or any other Construction Code of the Town, or who shall
fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder, or who shall build, construct, fabricate, or
install anything in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications of plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, or who shall fail to comply
with such an order within the time fixed therein, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of
competent jurisdiction, within the required time, shall severally for
each and every such violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section 1-4-1 of this Code.
The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a
reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each day that a
violation occurs or that a prohibited condition is maintained shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 515, 1-6-2014; amd. 2016 Code)

   C.   Removal Of Prohibited Conditions: The application of the above
penalty or penalties shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal
of any prohibited condition. (Ord. 515, 1-6-2014)

CHAPTER 4
BUILDING NUMBERS

SECTION:

10-4-1: Board Authority

10-4-2: Numbers Required

10-4-3: System Of Numbering

10-4-4: Placing Numbers

10-4-5: Material Of Numerals

10-4-6: Unauthorized Numbers

10-4-7: Map Of Streets

10-4-8: Certificate Of Numbers

10-4-1: BOARD AUTHORITY:

The board of trustees shall have the power to name or rename any of the
streets or public highways of the town and the board shall have the
power to divide or subdivide any of the streets, public highways or
public lands into streets, roadways, gutters, sidewalks and parks. (1997
Code § 15.28.080)

10-4-2: NUMBERS REQUIRED:

   A.   Numbers Required; Assignment: It is the duty of the owner or
occupant of every building in the town to number such building in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and with the numbers
assigned by the town administrator. The town administrator shall assign
to every building its proper number.

   B.   Expense: The expense of such numbering shall be paid by the
owner or occupant of the building. (1997 Code § 15.28.010)

10-4-3: SYSTEM OF NUMBERING:

In numbering the buildings upon the streets of the town, all even
numbers shall be on the south and east side of each street or avenue,
and all odd numbers shall be on the north and west side of each street
or avenue; provided, however, that where the street or avenue shall
curve or change direction, the street or avenue shall nevertheless be
numbered in accordance with the principal direction thereof. (1997 Code
§ 15.28.020)

10-4-4: PLACING NUMBERS:

It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any building to place
assigned numerals in a conspicuous position at the front of each
building and, upon notice from the town administrator or chief of
police, such numerals shall be so placed within thirty (30) days after
service of such notice. (1997 Code § 15.28.030)

10-4-5: MATERIAL OF NUMERALS:

All numerals shall be of some metallic, glass, porcelain or other
durable material, or gilt lettering on the inside of a glass transom of
door, and shall be distinctly legible and at least three inches (3") in
height. (1997 Code § 15.28.040)

10-4-6: UNAUTHORIZED NUMBERS:

It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any building to use or
permit to be used upon any building any number other than the number
assigned by the town administrator. (1997 Code § 15.28.050)

10-4-7: MAP OF STREETS:

The town administrator shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, from time
to time when directed by the board, a map of the streets of the town
showing the numbers of all buildings and lots and the names of all
streets. (1997 Code § 15.28.060)

10-4-8: CERTIFICATE OF NUMBERS:

Upon proper application, the town administrator shall issue to the owner
or occupant of any building or lot a certificate designating the proper
number for such building or lot. Any certificate so issued shall pertain
to the number of only one building or lot. (1997 Code § 15.28.070; amd.
2016 Code)

CHAPTER 5
COLORADO PLAINS REGIONAL AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONING

SECTION:

10-5-1: Short Title

10-5-2: Definitions

10-5-3: Airport Height Restriction Zones

10-5-4: Airport Zone Height Limitations

10-5-5: Compatible Land Use Regulations

10-5-6: Nonconforming Uses

10-5-7: Permit Requirements

10-5-8: Enforcement

10-5-9: Board Of Adjustment

10-5-10: Appeals

10-5-11: Conflicts; More Stringent Requirements Govern

10-5-12: Violations; Penalties

10-5-1: SHORT TITLE:

This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the COLORADO PLAINS
REGIONAL AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)

10-5-2: DEFINITIONS:

As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:

AIRPORT: Colorado Plains Regional Airport.

AIRPORT ELEVATION: The highest point of an airport's usable landing area
measured in feet from mean sea level.

APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended
runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the
primary surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height
limitation slope set forth in section 10-5-4 of this chapter. In plan,
the perimeter of the approach surface coincides with the perimeter of
the approach zone.

APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, AND CONICAL ZONES: The zones set
forth in section 10-5-3 of this chapter.

BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A board consisting of five (5) members appointed by
the mayor with the approval of the board of trustees for the town of
Akron, Colorado.

CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1)
for a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000').

HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: An obstruction determined to have a
substantial adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the
navigable airspace.

HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones
set forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall
be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.

HELIPORT PRIMARY SURFACE: The primary surface coincides in size and
shape with the designated takeoff and landing area of a heliport. This
surface is a horizontal plane at the elevation of the established
heliport elevation.

HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150')
above the established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan
coincides with the perimeter of the horizontal zone.

LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and
intended to be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than twelve
thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds' maximum gross weight and jet
powered aircraft.

NAVD 88: North American vertical datum 1988. All elevations in this
chapter are referenced to the 1988 North American vertical datum.

NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth,
or use of and which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter
or an amendment thereto.

NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only
horizontal guidance or area type navigation equipment, for which a
straight in nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved
or planned. It also means a runway for which a nonprecision approach
system is planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout plan
or any other planning document.

OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in section 10-5-4 of
this chapter.

PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association, or governmental entity or a
trustee, a receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of
them.

PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS), a
precision approach radar (PAR), or a global positioning system (GPS). It
also means a runway for which a precision approach system is planned and
is so indicated on an approved airport layout plan or any other planning
document.

PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface
extends two hundred feet (200') beyond each end of that runway; for
military runways, or when the runway has no specially prepared hard
surface or planned hard surface, the primary surface ends at each end of
that runway. The width of the primary surface is set forth in section
10-5-3 of this chapter. The elevation of any point on the primary
surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway
centerline.

RUNWAY: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.

STRUCTURE: Any object, including mobile objects, constructed or
installed by man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers,
cranes, smokestacks, earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.

TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: These surfaces extend outward at ninety degree
(90°) angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended
at a slope of seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically from
the sides of the primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect
the horizontal and conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those
portions of the precision approach surfaces, which project through and
beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a distance of five
thousand feet (5,000') measured horizontally from the edge of the
approach surface and at ninety degree (90°) angles to the extended
runway centerline.

TREE: Any object of natural growth.

UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used
by propeller driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500)
pounds' maximum gross weight and less.

VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft
using visual approach procedures. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)

10-5-3: AIRPORT HEIGHT RESTRICTION ZONES:

   A.   Zones Created; Filing Of Maps: In order to carry out the
provisions of this chapter, there are hereby created and established
certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the approach
surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces, and conical
surfaces as they apply to the Colorado Plains Regional Airport. Such
zones are shown on the Colorado Plains Regional Airport federal aviation
regulation (FAR) part 77 airspace drawing. Three (3) original, official,
and identical copies of the FAR part 77 airspace drawings reflecting the
boundaries of the airport height restriction overlay zoning districts of
the town are hereby adopted, and the board of trustees acting through
the mayor of the town is hereby authorized to sign and attest each map
as the official Colorado Plains Regional Airport FAR part 77 airspace
drawing and such maps shall be filed and maintained as follows:

      1.   One copy shall be filed for permanent record in the office of
the town clerk-administrator and shall be designated as exhibit A. This
copy shall not be changed in any manner.

      2.   One copy shall be filed with the planning commission and
shall be designated as exhibit B. This copy shall be maintained by the
planning commission by posting thereon all subsequent changes and
amendments.

      3.   One copy shall be filed in the office of the airport manager
and shall be designated as exhibit C.

   B.   Zones Established And Defined: Each portion of an area located
in more than one of the following zones shall be evaluated independently
according to the zone in which it is located. The various zones are
hereby established and defined as follows:

      1.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (Larger Than
Utility Runway): The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the
width of the primary surface and is one thousand feet (1,000') wide. The
approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of sixteen thousand
feet (16,000') at a horizontal distance of fifty thousand feet
(50,000'). Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the
runway.

      2.   Nonprecision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (Larger Than
Utility Runway): The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the
width of the primary surface and is five hundred feet (500') wide. The
approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of three thousand
five hundred feet (3,500') at a horizontal distance ten thousand feet
(10,000') from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation
of the centerline of the runway.

      3.   Nonprecision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (Utility
Aircraft): The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width
of the primary surface and is five hundred feet (500') wide. The
approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of two thousand feet
(2,000') at a horizontal distance five thousand feet (5,000') from the
primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of
the runway.

      4.   Visual Runway Approach Zone (Larger Than Utility Runway): The
inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary
surface and is five hundred feet (500') wide. The approach surface
expands uniformly to a width of one thousand five hundred feet (1,500')
at a horizontal distance five thousand feet (5,000') from the primary
surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the
runway.

      5.   Visual Runway Approach Zone (Utility Aircraft): The inner
edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary
surface and is two hundred fifty feet (250') wide. The approach surface
expands uniformly to a width of one thousand two hundred fifty feet
(1,250') at a horizontal distance of five thousand feet (5,000') from
the primary surface. The centerline of the approach zone is a
continuation of the centerline of the runway.

      6.   Transitional Zone: The transitional zones are the areas
beneath the transitional surfaces.

      7.   Horizontal Zone: The horizontal zone is established by
swinging arcs of five thousand (5,000) or ten thousand feet (10,000')
radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of the primary
runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to
those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and
transitional zones. The horizontal zone was constructed with ten
thousand feet (10,000') radii.

      8.   Conical Zone: The conical zone is established as the area
that commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends
outward there from a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000').

      9.   Airport Critical Zones: The dimensions of this zone coincide
with the dimension of the precision instrument runway approach zones.
The inner edge of this zone is one thousand feet (1,000') wide. The zone
expands outward uniformly to a width of sixteen thousand feet (16,000')
at a horizontal distance of fifty thousand feet (50,000') from the
beginning of the approach surface. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)

10-5-4: AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be
erected, altered, or maintained and no tree shall be allowed to grow in
any zone created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable
height limit herein established for such zone. Such applicable height
limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in question as
follows:

   A.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone: Slopes fifty feet
(50') outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the
same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal
distance of ten thousand feet (10,000') along the extended runway
centerline. Then slopes forty feet (40') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the first ten
thousand feet (10,000') and extending to a horizontal distance of forty
thousand feet (40,000') along the extended runway centerline.

   B.   Nonprecision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (Larger Than
Utility Runway): Slopes thirty four feet (34') outward for each foot
upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and extending to a horizontal distance of ten thousand feet
(10,000') along the extended runway centerline.

   C.   Nonprecision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (Utility Aircraft):
Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward beginning at the
end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to
a horizontal distance of five thousand feet (5,000') along the extended
runway centerline.

   D.   Visual Runway Approach Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward
for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of five
thousand feet (5,000') along the extended runway centerline.

   E.   Transitional Zone: Slopes seven feet (7') outward for each foot
upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and the approach surface and extending to a height of
one hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation. In addition
to the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven feet
(7') outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the
same elevation as the approach surface and extending to where they
intersect the conical surface. Where the precision instrument runway
approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, there are established
height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach
surface and extending a horizontal distance of five thousand feet
(5,000') measured at ninety degree (90°) angles to the extended runway
centerline.

   F.   Horizontal Zone: Established at one hundred fifty feet (150')
above the airport elevation.

   G.   Conical Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot
upward beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one
hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation and extending to a
height of three hundred fifty feet (350') above the airport elevation.

   H.   Airport Critical Zone: Established at one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport elevation. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)

10-5-5: COMPATIBLE LAND USE REGULATIONS:

   A.   Airport Compatible Land Use Overlay Zoning Districts: For the
purpose of regulating the development of noise sensitive land uses; to
promote compatibility between the airport and the surrounding land uses;
to protect the airport from incompatible development; and to promote the
health, safety, and general welfare of property users, the controlled
area of Colorado Plains Regional Airport is divided into airport
compatible land use overlay zoning districts. The airport compatible
land use overlay zoning districts established herein shall be known as:

 

  ---------------------------------- ------------------------
  Off Airport Land Use Zone Number   Zoning District Name
  1                                  Runway protection zone
  2                                  Inner safety zone
  3                                  Inner turning zone
  4                                  Outer turning zone
  5                                  Sideline safety zone
  6                                  Traffic pattern zone
  ---------------------------------- ------------------------

 

   B.   Off Airport Land Use Drawing:

      1.   The boundaries of the airport compatible land use overlay
zoning districts set out herein are delineated upon the Colorado Plains
Regional Airport off airport land use drawing. The off airport land use
drawing is adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter as fully
as if the off airport land use drawing were set forth herein in detail.

      2.   Three (3) original, official, and identical copies of the off
airport land use drawing reflecting the boundaries of the airport
compatible land use overlay zoning districts of the town are hereby
adopted and the board of trustees acting through the mayor of the town
are hereby authorized to sign and attest each map as the official off
airport land use drawing and such maps shall be filed and maintained as
follows:

         a.   One copy shall be filed for permanent record in the office
of the town clerk-administrator and shall be designated as exhibit D.
This copy shall not be changed in any manner.

         b.   One copy shall be filed in the office of the planning
commission and shall be designated as exhibit E. The planning commission
shall maintain this copy by posting thereon all subsequent changes and
amendments.

         c.   One copy shall be filed in the office of the airport
manager and shall be designated as exhibit F.

   C.   Airport Compatible Land Use Overlay Zoning District Boundaries:

      1.   The airport compatible land use overlay zoning district
boundary lines shown on the official off airport land use drawing shall
be located and delineated along contour lines established for Colorado
Plains Regional Airport. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries
of the airport compatible land use overlay zoning districts as shown on
the official map, the following rules shall apply:

         a.   Boundaries shall be scaled from the nearest runway end
shown on the map.

         b.   Boundaries shall be scaled from the nearest physical
feature shown on the map.

         c.   Boundaries may be scaled from the nearest platted lot line
as shown on the map.

         d.   Distances not specifically indicated on the original off
airport land use drawing shall be determined by a scaled measurement on
the map.

      2.   Where physical features on the ground differ from the
information shown on the official off airport land use drawing or when
there arises a question as to how or where a parcel of property is zoned
and such questions cannot be resolved by the application of subsection
C1 of this section, the property shall be considered to be classified as
the most restrictive airport compatible land use overlay zoning
district.

      3.   Where a parcel of land lies within more than one airport
compatible land use overlay zoning district, the zone within which each
portion of the property is located shall apply individually to each
portion of the development.

   D.   Use Of Land And Buildings:

      1.   Within the airport compatible land use overlay zoning
districts as defined herein, no land shall hereafter be used and no
structure or other object shall hereafter be erected, altered,
converted, or modified other than for those compatible land uses
permitted by underlying comprehensive zoning districts, as specified in
this code. Additional land uses are prohibited in the airport compatible
land use overlay zoning districts, regardless of underlying zoning, as
set forth in the land use compatibility table included in subsection F
of this section.

      2.   Where any use of prohibited land and buildings set forth in
subsection D1 of this section conflicts with any use of land and
buildings set forth in this code, as an allowed use on the zoning
district map, this chapter shall apply.

      3.   This subsection does not apply to property within the
official boundaries of the airport.

      4.   Where specified on the airport compatible land use table in
subsection F of this section, the property owner shall dedicate, in
advance of receiving a building permit, an aviation clear zone easement
to the town. The purpose of this easement shall be to establish a
maximum height restriction on the use of property and to hold the public
harmless for any damages caused by noise, vibration, fumes, dust, fuel,
fuel particles, or other effects that may be caused by the operation of
aircraft landing at, taking off from, or operating on or at public
airport facilities.

   E.   Additional Land Use Regulations:

      1.   Within the town, the more restrictive of this code or
subsection D1 of this section, shall apply to the development of all
property covered by the off airport land use drawing.

      2.   On property within the off airport land use drawing
jurisdiction, but outside the jurisdictional limits of the town,
subsection D1 of this section shall apply to formulate land use
recommendations or responses to land use comment requests from other
jurisdictions.

      3.   When a provision of this section conflicts with any airport
height hazard restrictions, the most restrictive provision shall apply.

      4.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter or other
provisions of this code, no use may be made of land, water, or
structures within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner
as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft; make it difficult for
pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others; or result in
glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport; impair visibility in the
vicinity of the airport; create bird strike hazards; or otherwise in any
way endanger or interfere with the landing, taking off, or flight
operations of aircraft utilizing the airport.

      5.   When a subdivision plat is required for any property within
an airport compatible land use overlay zoning district or within an area
shown on the FAR part 77 airspace drawing for Colorado Plains Regional
Airport, the property owner shall dedicate an aviation hazard easement
to the town over and across that property. This easement shall establish
a height restriction on the use of the property and hold the public
harmless from any damages caused by noise, vibration, fumes, dust, fuel,
fuel particles, or other effects that may be caused by the operation of
aircraft taking off, landing, or operating on or near the Colorado
Plains Regional Airport.

   F.   Land Use Compatibility Table: The following table shall apply:

LAND USE COMPATIBILITY TABLE

P - Permitted, C - Conditional, X - Not Allowed

Colorado Plains Regional Airport

Runway Protection Zone

Inner Safety Zone

Inner Turning Zone

Outer Turning Zone

Sideline Safety Zone

Traffic Pattern Zone

Colorado Plains Regional Airport

Runway Protection Zone

Inner Safety Zone

Inner Turning Zone

Outer Turning Zone

Sideline Safety Zone

Traffic Pattern Zone

Residential:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Single-family, nursing homes, multi-family, apartments, condominiums

X

X

C 1,3

C3,4

X

C3

 

Transient lodging, motels, hotels

X

X

C1,3

C3,4

X

C3

Public:

 

Parking and cemeteries

X

C5

P

P

P

P

 

Schools, libraries, churches

X

X

C4

C4

X

C3

Commercial/industrial:

 

Airport revenue producing enterprises

X

P

P

P

P

P

 

Offices, retail trades, light industrial, general manufacturing,
utilities, extractive industry

X

C6

C3,4

C3,4

C6

P

Agricultural and recreational:

 

Amphitheaters

X

X

X

X

X

C3

 

Cropland

P

P

P

C2

P

P

 

Livestock breeding, zoos, golf courses, riding stables, water recreation

X

C6

P

P

P

P

 

Open space

P

P

P

P

P

P

 

Outdoor spectator sports, parks, playgrounds

X

X

C1,3

C1,3,4

X

X

 

Conditions:

   1.    If allowed, avigation easements and disclosure must be required
as a condition of development. Limit residential density to 1 unit per 5
acres. Limit commercial density to 25 people per acre.

   2.    Any structures associated with uses allowed in the 65 Ldn noise
contour must be located outside the 65 Ldn noise contour.

   3.    If no reasonable alternative exists, use should be located as
far from extended centerline as possible. Avigation easement should be
required as a condition of development.

   4.    If allowed, disclosure of airport proximity must be required as
a condition of development. An avigation easement should be considered
based on proximity to runway centerline. Limit residential density to 1
unit per 5 acres. Limit commercial density to 40 people per acre inside
buildings and 75 people per acre outside.

   5.    Transportation facilities in the 65 Ldn noise contour (i.e.,
roads, railroads, waterways) must be configured to comply with FAR part
77 requirements.

   6.    Disclosure of airport proximity should be required as a
condition of development, Limit density to 5 people per acre.

Note: All facilities should be configured to comply with FAR part 77
requirements.

(Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)

10-5-6: NONCONFORMING USES:

   A.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed by this
chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or
other change or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to
the regulations as of the effective date hereof, or otherwise interfere
with the continuance of nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein
shall require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended
use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun
prior to the effective date hereof and is diligently prosecuted.
Nonconforming land uses existing as of the effective date hereof may be
modified such that: 1) only existing structures may be enlarged or
expanded; 2) that they do not result in any greater violation of height
restrictions; and 3) a variance in accordance with subsection 10-5-7D of
this chapter is obtained.

   B.   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding the preceding provision of
this section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree
is hereby required to permit the installation, operation, and
maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed
necessary by the town to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the
vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport obstruction. Such
markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and maintained at the
expense of the Colorado Plains Regional Airport. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)

10-5-7: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:

   A.   Future Uses: Except as specifically provided in subsections A1
and A2 of this section, no material change shall be made in the use of
land, no structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no
tree shall be planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit
therefor shall have been applied for and granted. Each application for a
permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with
sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether the
regulating use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations
herein prescribed. A federal aviation administration (FAA) form 7460-1,
"Notice Of Proposed Construction Or Alteration", shall accompany each
application. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit
shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions
of this chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in
accordance with subsection D of this section.

      1.   In the area lying within the limits of the approach zone,
transition zone, horizontal zone, and conical zone, no permit shall be
required by this chapter for any tree or structure less than two hundred
feet (200') above ground level which is also lower than an imaginary
surface extending outward and upward at a slope of one hundred feet
(100') horizontal for each one foot (1') vertical beginning at the
closest point of the closest runway.

      2.   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction,
alteration of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of
the height limits established by this chapter.

   B.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of any obstruction or permit a nonconforming
use, structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation
than it was on the effective date hereof, or any amendments thereto, or
than it is when the application for a permit is made. Except as
indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.

   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the town
determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned or
more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated, or
decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or
tree to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from
this chapter.

   D.   Variances:

      1.   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, permit the growth of any tree, or use property not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to
the board of adjustment for a variance from such regulations. The
application for variance shall be accompanied by a determination from
the FAA as to the effect of a proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace.
Such variances shall be allowed only when it is duly found that a
literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result in
unnecessary hardship and that the requested relief, if granted, will not
be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard to air
navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with
the spirit of this chapter.

      2.   Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements
of this chapter may be considered by the board of adjustment unless a
copy of the application has been furnished to the town of Akron and
Washington County for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the
variance. If the town and county do not respond to the application
within fifteen (15) days after receipt, the board of adjustment may act
on its own to grant or deny the application.

   E.   Obstruction Marking And Lighting: Any permit or variance granted
may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of
this chapter and to be reasonable under the circumstances, be so
conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question
to install, operate, and maintain, at the owner's expense, such markings
and lights as condition may require in accordance with FAA provisions.
(Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)

10-5-8: ENFORCEMENT:

It shall be the duty of the town to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances
shall be made to the town upon a form published for that purpose.
Applications required by this chapter to be submitted to the town shall
be promptly considered and granted or denied. Application for action by
the board of adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the town.
(Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)

10-5-9: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:

   A.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: The board of adjustment
shall continue to act pursuant to title 11, chapter 3 of this code and
any other such ordinances and statutes as may be applicable.

   B.   Membership And Terms: As set forth in section 11-3-1 of this
code, the board of adjustment shall consist of members appointed by the
mayor with the approval of the board of trustees. Each member shall
serve for a term of three (3) years until a successor is duly appointed
and qualified.

   C.   Powers: The jurisdiction of the board of adjustment is hereby
extended to include and exercise the following powers:

      1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by the town in the enforcement of this
chapter;

      2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this
chapter; and

      3.   To hear and decide specific variances requested under this
chapter. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)

10-5-10: APPEALS:

   A.   Appeals To Board Of Adjustment:

      1.   Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any decision
of the town made in the administration of this chapter may appeal to the
board of adjustment.

      2.   All appeals hereunder must be taken within thirty (30) days
from the date of the ruling by the town, by filing with the town a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The town shall
forthwith transmit to the board of adjustment all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.

      3.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from unless the town certifies to the board of
adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by
reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would in the
opinion of the town cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by the order of the board
of adjustment on notice to the town and on due cause shown.

      4.   The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for
hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in
interest, and decide the appeal within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.

      5.   The board of adjustment may, in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or
modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from
and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination as may
be appropriate under the circumstances.

   B.   Appeals From Board Of Adjustment: Any person aggrieved or any
taxpayer affected by any decision of the board of adjustment may appeal
as provided by the ordinances of the town and the statutes of the state
of Colorado. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)

10-5-11: CONFLICTS; MORE STRINGENT REQUIREMENTS GOVERN:

Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or
limitations prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations
applicable to the same area, whether the conflict is with respect to the
height of structures or trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the
more stringent limitation or requirements shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)

10-5-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:

Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter or of any
regulation, order, or ruling promulgated pursuant to this chapter shall
be punished for each violation as provided in section 1-4-1 of this
code. Each day during which such a violation occurs shall be a separate
offense.

(Ord. 473, 11-1-2004; amd. 2016 Code)

CHAPTER 10
SHIPPING CONTAINERS

SECTION:

10-6-1: Definitions

10-6-2: Residential Zone As A Permanent Use

10-6-3: Special Review; Variance

10-6-4: Commercial And Industrial Zone As A Permanent Use

10-6-5: Self-Storage Facilities Using Cargo Containers For Permanent Use

10-6-6: Temporary Use Of Containers In Residential, Commercial, And
Industrial Zones

10-6-7: Permanent Use Of Temporary Storage Containers

10-6-8: Previously Placed Containers

10-6-9: Violations; Penalties

10-6-1: DEFINITIONS:

COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY: Property zoned as business and
commercial or industrial.

PARCEL: Any lot or contiguous group of lots owned by the same person,
persons, or entity.

PORTABLE/RENTAL CONTAINER BUSINESS: A business that leases or sells
containers that are transported to another site.

RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: Property zoned as AA Residence, A Residence, B
Residence, C Residence, Ranchette, or mobile home park.

SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY: Real property designed for renting or
leasing individual storage space to occupants for storing and removing
personal property. Not a public warehouse.

SEMI-TRUCK TRAILER: A mobile trailer towed by a truck or tractor,
including dry van trailers and refrigerated van trailers, with or
without a chassis, axles, and wheels. Includes box trailers. (Ord. 594,
10-11-2024)

SHIPPING CONTAINERS: Detachable prefabricated reusable containers
intended for transporting cargo, commonly known as cargo containers,
storage containers, transport containers (truck, rail, or marine cargo
containers), or Conex. Shipping containers are self-contained without
axles or wheels. Shipping containers may be allowed as buildings in the
Town of Akron, subject to the requirements and conditions contained in
this chapter 6.

SLAB: A flat and solid foundation constructed of concrete or similar
material, typically used as a base for the placement of shipping
containers or other structures within the Town of Akron. Slabs provide
stability and support, ensuring the proper placement and securement of
containers on properties subject to the regulations outlined herein.

10-6-2: RESIDENTIAL ZONE AS A PERMANENT USE:

   A single shipping container is allowed in all residential zones for
permanent use subject to the conditions set forth in this section
10-6-2. Failure to comply with any of the conditions, in the sole
subjective discretion of the town manager or their designee, shall be
grounds for immediate revocation of any permit issued under subsection
(K) of this Section 10-6-2.

   A.   The shipping container shall be placed on a flat, level, and
stable surface (e.g., slab, footings, hard-packed soil).

   B.   Each residential zone permits up to three (3) accessory
buildings, including a garage. Only one (1) container is allowed, and
shall be counted as one (1) accessory building.

   C.   Limit of one (1) container per lot, unless under a building
permit for habitation or attachment to a permanent structure is obtained
from the town.

   D.   Shipping container must be on the same lot as the principal
structure and included in lot coverage calculation of open and built
space as specified in the Akron Municipal Code.

   E.   Stacking of shipping containers is prohibited unless permitted
for habitation. No other materials may be stacked on shipping containers
except for optional roofs.

   F.   All structures, including shipping containers, must be finished
neatly and resemble or be compatible with principal structures.

   G.   Shipping container placement requires approval from the building
inspector and must not impair driver visibility.

   H.   Shipping containers must be placed at a distance from the street
equal to or greater than the primary structure's setback.

   I.   All shipping containers placed within a residential zone must be
screened from public rights-of-way and adjacent properties, to provide a
visual barrier from the street/streets. A seventy-five percent (75%)
screening visibility, six (6) feet in height must be erected to screen
the entire container. Permitted forms of screening are permanent
enclosures, using brick, stone, or similar material; permanent fence or
wall; landscaping and berming; or any combination thereof. Chain-link
fencing shall not to be used for required screening. Containers are to
be placed on the lot in a manner that minimizes their visual impact on
adjacent properties.

   J.   Shipping containers cannot be placed on vacant land in a
residential zone.

   K.   A building permit is required for shipping container placement.
Applicants must provide a plat showing lot dimensions and shipping
container size with their application.

   L.   If shipping containers are to be attached to each other or to
another structure, the permit application must include a site plan and
foundation details.

   M.   Moving an unattached shipping container requires a new building
permit application and town approval.

   N.   Semi-truck trailers are not allowed for storage, unless a
temporary permit is obtained from the town. Such temporary permit shall
be limited to thirty (30) days.

(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)

10-6-3: SPECIAL REVIEW; VARIANCE:

   Special review may permit more than one (1) container in residential
zones, subject to approval from the Town Board of Adjustment, and
subject to the following conditions:

   A.   Applications for review must be submitted with a building permit
at least thirty (30) days before scheduled placement.

   B.   Shipping containers must be placed a minimum of three (3) feet
apart, unless permanently attached.

   C.   Approval is valid for one (1) year, after the permit is void.

10-6-4: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONE AS A PERMANENT USE:

   Up to three (3) shipping containers are allowed in commercial and
industrial zones for permanent use subject to the conditions set forth
in this Section 10-6-4. Failure to comply with any of the conditions, in
the sole subjective discretion of the Town Manager of their designee,
shall be grounds for immediate revocation of any permit issued under
subsection (J) of this Section 10-6-4.

   A.   The shipping container shall be placed on a flat, level, and
stable surface (e.g., slab, footings, hard-packed soil).

   B.   Each commercial and industrial zone permits up to three (3)
accessory buildings, including a garage. Three (3) shipping containers
are allowed, counted as one (1) accessory building, per container.

   C.   Limit of three (3) shipping containers per lot, unless under a
building permit for habitation or attachment to a permanent structure.

   D.   Shipping containers must be on the same lot as the principal
structure and included in lot coverage calculation.

   E.   Stacking of shipping containers is prohibited unless permitted
for habitation. No other materials may be stacked on containers except
for optional roofs.

   F.   All structures, including shipping containers, must be finished
neatly and resemble or be compatible with principal structures.

   G.   Shipping container placement requires approval from the building
inspector and must not impair driver visibility.

   H.   Shipping containers must be placed at a distance from the street
equal to or greater than the primary structure's setback.

   I.   Shipping containers placed on vacant land must be placed on the
rear half of the property, as determined by the town. Containers must be
the same color if multiple containers are placed on a vacant lot.

   J.   A building permit is required for shipping container placement.
Applicants must provide a plat showing lot dimensions and shipping
container size with their application.

   K.   If shipping containers are to be attached to each other or to
another structure, the permit application must include a site plan and
foundation details.

   L.   Moving an unattached shipping container requires a new building
permit application and town approval.

   M.   Semi-truck trailers are not allowed for storage, unless a
temporary permit is obtained from the town. Such temporary permit shall
be limited to thirty (30) days.

(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)

10-6-5: SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES USING CARGO CONTAINERS FOR PERMANENT
USE:

   In zones that allow self-storage as a use by right, more than three
(3) shipping containers may be allowed for self-storage businesses,
subject to the conditions set forth in this section 10-6-5. Failure to
comply with any of the conditions, in the sole subjective discretion of
the town manager or their designee, shall be grounds for immediate
revocation of any permit issued under subsection H. of this section
10-6-5.

   A.   The shipping container shall be placed on a flat, level, and
stable surface (e.g., slab, footings, hard-packed soil).

   B.   Shipping containers must not be stacked.

   C.   No additional materials may be stacked on top of shipping
containers, except for an optional roof, which must be built in
accordance with the other requirements of the Akron Municipal Code,
including its adopted building code.

   D.   Shipping containers must resemble each other and must be the
same color.

   E.   Shipping containers must be placed only in approved designated
areas, with approval obtained of the building inspector before
installation.

   F.   Shipping containers shall not be placed so as to impede the
visual safety of drivers from the road.

   G.   If more than one (1) shipping container is placed on the same
lot, each shipping container must be positioned a minimum of three (3)
feet apart from each other to ensure safety. Shipping containers placed
closer than three (3) feet must be permanently attached to each other.
No variance from this requirement shall be allowed.

   H.   A building permit is required for shipping container placement.
Applicants must provide a plat showing lot dimensions and shipping
container size with their application.

(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)

10-6-6: TEMPORARY USE OF CONTAINERS IN RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND
INDUSTRIAL ZONES:

   Temporary use of shipping containers is permitted in all zones,
subject to the following conditions:

   A.   Temporary Use For Loading, Unloading, Or Construction Purposes:
Up to three (3) shipping containers are allowed on residential,
commercial, and industrial properties for a temporary period not
exceeding sixty 60 days, specifically for loading and unloading
household contents or for construction purposes. The following
conditions apply:

      1.   A temporary permit must be obtained from the town clerk's
office at least fifteen (15) days prior to placing any shipping
container.

      2.   Shipping containers shall not be situated closer than five
(5) feet to any side or rear lot line, and at least fifteen (15) feet
from the front lot line.

      3.   For safety reasons, shipping containers shall not be placed
on any street or alley unless a temporary permit is first obtained
through the town clerk's office. The town clerk has sole discretion to
deny a request for temporary permit if, in the town clerk's sole
subjective discretion, the requested placement of a shipping container
in a street or alley would be unsafe.

   B.   Temporary Placement On Construction Sites: Up to three (3)
shipping containers may be temporarily placed on a construction site in
all zones for storage related to an active construction or remodeling
project, subject to the following conditions:

      1.   A building permit must be obtained for the construction site,
and the permit must remain valid. Shipping containers shall be removed
promptly once construction is completed or when the building permit
expires, whichever occurs first. A separate sixty (60) day permit shall
not be required.

      2.   A temporary permit for shipping container placement must be
obtained from the town clerk's office.

      3.   Shipping containers shall not be placed on any street or
alley unless required by the town.

(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)

10-6-7: PERMANENT USE OF TEMPORARY STORAGE CONTAINERS:

   A business operating within the Town of Akron that utilizes shipping
containers for their operations, and regularly moves shipping containers
on and off its property for construction or other business purposes, the
shipping containers may maintain such shipping containers at their
business location, with a certificate of exemption from the town clerk's
office. The town clerk shall have discretion to grant or deny any
request for a certificate of exemption.

   Upon issuance of the certificate of exemption, the business is
permitted to use the container in accordance with the zoning regulations
applicable to their property. If the business ceases operations the
certificate of exemption shall be considered expired, and any shipping
containers must be removed from the property. The town clerk reserves
the right to revoke any certificate of exemption issued hereunder at the
town clerk's discretion.

(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)

10-6-8: PREVIOUSLY PLACED CONTAINERS:

   All shipping containers placed within the Town of Akron prior to the
effective date of this chapter are exempt from its requirements.
However, any relocation, movement, or change in the character of any
previously placed shipping containers shall require town approval and
compliance with the requirements of this chapter 6.

(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)

10-6-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:

   A.   Violations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a person, firm
or corporation to place or maintain any shipping container within the
town, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of this
chapter 6, Title 10 of the Akron Municipal Code, or in violations of any
other ordinance of the town.

   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm or corporation who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter 6, Title 10 of the Akron
Municipal Code shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of a penalty for
any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue;
and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each day that a violation occurs or that a prohibited
condition is maintained shall constitute a separate offense.

   C.   Nuisance; Removal Of Prohibited Condition: Any shipping
container placed within the town in violation of this chapter 6, Title
10 of the Akron Municipal Code is hereby declared a nuisance, which may
be abated pursuant to chapter 1, Title 5 of the Akron Municipal Code.
The application of the above penalty or penalties shall not be held to
prevent the enforced removal of any prohibited condition.

(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)

TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS

CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE, AUTHORITY AND DEFINITIONS

SECTION:

11-1-1: Purpose

11-1-2: Authority

11-1-3: Definitions

11-1-1: PURPOSE:

The regulations of this title shall be for the purpose of promoting the
health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of
the present and future inhabitants of Akron, Colorado, by: the lessening
of congestions in the streets and roads or reducing the waste of
excessive amounts of roads; securing safety from fire and other dangers;
providing adequate light and air; classification of land uses and the
distribution of land development and utilization; protection of tax
base; securing economy in governmental expenditures; and the protection
of urban and nonurban development. (1997 Code §17.04.010)

11-1-2: AUTHORITY:

This title is authorized by Colorado Revised Statutes title 31, article
23, as amended, and is declared to be in accordance with all provisions
of these statutes. (1997 Code §17.04.020)

11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:

Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the
singular number include the plural and words in the plural include the
singular; the word "building" includes the word "structure"; the word
"shall" is mandatory.

The following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section:

ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building or portion of main building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the main building or dwelling.

ALLEY: A minor public thoroughfare upon which the rear of building lots
generally abuts and which is generally used for service purposes only.

APARTMENT HOTEL: A building or portion thereof designated for or
containing both dwelling units and six (6) or more guestrooms or suites
of rooms.

AUTO COURT OR COTTAGE CAMP OR MOTEL: A group of dwellings of not less
than two hundred (200) square feet floor space per unit, facing a common
court, place or street, and designed for or used temporarily for
automobile tourists or transients, with adequate off street parking
space for each unit.

AUTOMOBILE SALES AREA: An open area other than a street used for the
display or rental of new or used automobiles to be displayed, sold or
rented on the premises.

AUTOMOBILE WRECKING: The dismantling or wrecking of used motor vehicles
or trailers, or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, obsolete or
wrecked vehicles or their parts, but not including the incidental
storage of damaged vehicles in connection with the operation of a repair
garage.

BASEMENT HOUSE: A dwelling or structure constructed partly or wholly
below the grade level of any property.

BOARDING, ROOMING OR LODGING HOUSE: A building other than a motel where
lodging and/or meals for five (5) or more persons are provided for
compensation.

CORNER LOT: A lot situated at the junction of a front street and a side
street.

CURB CUTS: A cut in the curb line for passage of vehicles, not to exceed
twelve feet (12') in width for single drive and thirty feet (30') for
double drive.

DRIVE-IN BUSINESS: A place of business where persons are served in
automobiles from a refreshment stand, restaurant, food store and the
like.

DWELLING: A structure used as a residence containing not less than a
living room, bedroom, kitchen and a completely equipped bathroom
containing a toilet and a bathtub or shower, lavatory, all connected to
the sewer and supplied with town water and shall also include a "modular
unit" or "sectional home" as defined in this section.

ERECT: Means and includes moving of existing buildings.

FRONT STREET: A street on which the lots of a town block, or subdivision
thereof, generally front.

HOTEL: A building occupied as a more or less temporary abiding place of
individuals who are lodgers with or without meals for compensation, and
in which there are more than ten (10) sleeping rooms, usually occupied
singly, and in which no provision is made for cooking in any individual
apartment or room.

JUNKYARD: The use of more than two hundred (200) square feet of area of
any lot or site for the storage, keeping or abandonment of junk,
including scrap metals or other scrap materials or for the dismantling,
demolition or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery
or parts thereof.

LOT: Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
building together with such open spaces as are required under this title
and having its principal frontage on a street or officially approved
place.

MANUFACTURED HOME: A preconstructed building unit, or combination of
preconstructed building units, without motive power, designed and
commonly used for residential occupancy by persons in either temporary
or permanent location, which unit or units are manufactured in a factory
or at a location other than the residential site of the completed home.
After December 31, 2024, no manufactured homes built prior to 2006 may
be brought into the Town of Akron. Manufactured homes permanently placed
within the Town of Akron after December 31, 2024 shall have perimeter
skirting between the ground and the manufactured home floor within
thrity (30) days of their placement in the Town.

MODULAR UNIT: A manufactured home, built prior to June 1, 1976, which is
constructed off-site with a permanent chassis designed for over the road
transportation and delivered to the home site in one (1) or more
sections. Mobile homes are not allowed anywhere in the Town of Akron
unless already located in the Town of Akron prior to January 1, 2025.

NONCONFORMING USE: A building or land lawfully occupied by a use that
does not conform with the regulations of the district in which it is
situated.

PORCH: A roofed or unroofed open structure projecting from the front,
side or rear wall of a building. For the purpose of this title, a porch
is considered a part of the principal building and is not permitted to
extend into any required yards.

REAR YARD: A yard unoccupied except by an accessory building as
hereinafter permitted, extending across the full width of the lot
between the rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot.

SECTIONAL HOME: A dwelling made of two (2) modular units, factory
fabricated and transported to the homesite where they are put on a
foundation and joined to make a single house.

SELF-STORAGE FACILITY: A place of business operated for the purpose of
renting or leasing individual storage space to occupants who are given
access to a self-storage space for the sole purpose of storage and
removing personal property. Self-storage facilities may be operated as a
use by right in areas zoned industrial.

SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the property line and
front line of the building or any projection thereof, excluding steps.

SIDE YARD: A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the street line to the rear of the lot.

SIGN: Any advertisement, announcement, direction or communication
produced in whole or in part by the construction, erection, affixing or
placing of a structure on any land or on any other structure, or
produced by painting on or pasting or placing any printed, lettered,
pictured, figured or colored materials on any building, structure or
surface; provided, however, that signs placed or erected by the town or
the state for the purpose of showing street names or traffic directions
or regulations or for other municipal or government purposes shall not
be included herein nor shall this include signs which are part of the
architectural design of the building.

STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of a
floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no
floor above it, then the space between such floor and the ceiling next
above it.

STORY, HALF: A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates
of which on at least two (2) opposite, exterior walls, are not more than
two feet (2') above the floor of such story.

STREET: A public thoroughfare fifty feet (50') or more in width and not
less than forty feet (40') between curbs.

STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.

STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
substantially permanent location on the soil, but not including utility
poles or garbage or trash disposal units. A manufactured home that is
transported to its site and permanently affixed to the ground, attached
to a permanent concrete foundation around the perimeter, so that it is
no longer capable of being drawn over the public highways, and which has
become real property as described in Colorado Revised Statutes section
38-29-114(2), and which manufactured home is of substantially equal
value to other improvements in the immediate neighborhood, shall be
considered as a structure.

TEMPORARY: Less than twelve (12) months.

YARD: An open space unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward,
which is on the same lot with a building, except as otherwise provided
herein.

(1997 Code § 17.04.030; amd. Ord. 598, 11-15-2024; Ord. 599, 11-15-2024)

CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

SECTION:

11-2-1: Enforcement

11-2-2: Interpretation And Conflict Of Provisions

11-2-3: Boundaries Of Districts

11-2-4: Permit Requirements; Fees

11-2-5: Certificate Of Occupancy

11-2-6: Inspections And Tests

11-2-7: Changes And Amendments

11-2-8: Notice Of Filing Application For Variance

11-2-1: ENFORCEMENT:

It shall be the duty of the building inspector to see that this title is
enforced. Appeal from the decision of the building inspector may be made
to the board of adjustment as provided in section 11-3-3 of this title.
(1997 Code §17.48.120)

11-2-2: INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT OF PROVISIONS:

In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals, order, convenience, happiness, prosperity and
general welfare. It is not intended by this title to interfere with, or
abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between
parties; provided, however, that wherever this title imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon the height of
buildings or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or required by
other ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, or by easements,
covenants or agreements, the provisions of this title shall govern.
(1997 Code §17.48.090)

11-2-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:

Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts, as shown on the building zone map attached to the ordinance
codified in this title and made a part of this title, the following
rules shall apply:

   A.   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless
otherwise shown, and where the designation on the map attached to the
ordinance codified in this title and made a part of this title indicates
that the various districts are approximately bounded by street or alley
lines, the streets shall be construed to be the boundary of such
district.

   B.   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated and
where the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks, and
lots, the district boundaries shall be construed to be lot lines; and
where the designation on the map attached to the ordinance codified in
this title and made a part of this title indicates that the various
districts are approximately bounded by lot lines, the lot lines shall be
construed to be the boundary of such district, unless the boundaries are
otherwise indicated on the map. (1997 Code §17.48.100)

11-2-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEES:

   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful to construct or alter any
building or structure in the town, excepting fences, when the cost of
such construction exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00), or where the
effect of such construction or alteration is to enlarge the capacity or
affect the bearing walls or the roof thereof, without having first
secured a permit therefor. (1997 Code §17.48.010)

   B.   Application For Permit: Application for such permits shall be
made to the office of the town clerk and should be accompanied by plans
and specifications in duplicate showing the work to be done. Such plans
shall be verified by the signature of both the owner of the premises and
the contractor in charge of the operation. (1997 Code §17.48.020)

   C.   Plan Approval With Application: Such applications with plans
shall be referred to the building inspector, who shall examine same to
determine whether or not the proposed construction or alteration will
comply with the ordinance provisions relative thereto. Upon approval,
one set of plans shall be returned to the applicant with a permit and
the other shall be retained by the building inspector. No permit shall
be issued until after approval of the plans. (1997 Code §17.48.030)

   D.   Variations To Plans And Specifications: It is unlawful to vary
materially from the submitted plans and specifications unless the
variations are submitted in an amended plan to the building inspector
and approved by him. (1997 Code §17.48.040)

   E.   Plat Required: Applications for building permits shall be
accompanied by a plat in duplicate drawn to scale showing the actual
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size of the building to be
erected, and such other information as may be necessary to provide for
the enforcement of these regulations. A careful record of such
applications shall be kept in the office of the building inspector.
(1997 Code §17.48.080)

   F.   Permit Fees: The fees for building permits shall be set by
resolution of the board of trustees. (1997 Code §17.48.060; amd. 2016
Code)

11-2-5: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:

   A.   Certificate Required; Issuance: Certificate of occupancy for the
use of vacant land or the change in the use of land as herein provided
shall be applied for before any such land shall be occupied or used, and
a certificate of occupancy shall be issued within ten (10) days after
the application has been made, provided such use is in conformity with
the provisions of this title.

   B.   Statement Of Compliance; Records Kept:

      1.   Certificate of occupancy shall state that the building or
proposed use of a building or land, complies with all the building and
health laws and ordinances and with the provisions of this title.

      2.   A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the
office of the building inspector, and copies shall be furnished on
request to any person having a proprietary or tenant's interest in the
building affected.

      3.   No fee shall be charged for an original certificate applied
for coincident with the application for a building permit; for all other
certificates or for copies of the original certificate there shall be a
fee charged of one dollar ($1.00) each.

   C.   Excavation Permit: No permit for excavation for any building
shall be issued before application has been made for certificate of
occupancy. (1997 Code §17.48.070)

11-2-6: INSPECTIONS AND TESTS:

The building inspector shall make or cause to be made such inspections
as are necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this
title, and shall make any tests or examinations of materials or methods
to be used for the purpose of seeing that they comply with the
provisions of this title. (1997 Code §17.48.050)

11-2-7: CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS:

   A.   Procedure Outlined: The board of trustees may, from time to
time, on its own motion or on petition, after public notice and hearing
as provided by law, amend, supplement or change the boundaries or
regulations herein or subsequently established. Whenever the owners of
fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage in any district or part
thereof present a petition duly signed and acknowledged to the board of
trustees, requesting an amendment, supplement or change of the
regulation prescribed for such district or part thereof, it shall be the
duty of the board of trustees to vote upon such petition within ninety
(90) days after the filing by the petitioners with the board of
trustees; in the case of a protest to the proposed amendment, supplement
or change be presented duly signed and acknowledged by the owners of
twenty percent (20%), or more, either of the area of the lots included
in such proposed change, or those immediately adjacent in the area
thereof, extending one hundred feet (100') from the street frontage of
such opposite lots, such amendment or change shall not be passed except
by two-thirds (2/3) vote of the board of trustees.

   B.   Publication Of Notice: Whenever under this section, it shall be
necessary to publish notice of public hearing in connection with changes
or amendments in the zoning regulations or zoning classification, the
person or persons applying for the change shall pay to the town the cost
of the publication. (1997 Code §17.48.110)

11-2-8: NOTICE OF FILING APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE:

A written notice of the filing of an application for a variance from the
application of the zoning regulations shall be sent by the town clerk to
all landowners on the same block and to all landowners whose land is
adjacent to the street of the property described in any such
application. Notice shall be sent by first class United States mail,
postage prepaid. Notice shall also be posted at town hall in the same
manner as notices of regular or special meetings of the board of
trustees. Notice shall be sent and shall be posted at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing. In the event that adjacent property is held
in common ownership, notice shall be sent to the appropriate homeowners'
or condominium association. (Ord. 499, 2-7-2011)

CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT

SECTION:

11-3-1: Board Established; Terms; Meetings

11-3-2: Jurisdiction

11-3-3: Appeals; Notice

11-3-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; TERMS; MEETINGS:

   A.   Established; Membership; Terms: The board of adjustment is
established. The word "board", when used in this chapter, shall be
construed to mean the board of adjustment. The board shall consist of
five (5) members and shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval
of the board of trustees, each to be appointed for a term of three (3)
years, except that the board first appointed, two (2) members shall be
appointed for a term of three (3) years, two (2) members shall be
appointed for a term of two (2) years, and one member for a term of one
year.

   B.   Quorum; Voting: The presence of three (3) members shall be
necessary to constitute a quorum and when three (3) only are present,
their unanimous vote shall be required to make a decision.

   C.   Meetings; Rules Of Procedure: Meetings of the board shall be
held at the call of the chairman, the request of the building inspector
or by any party wishing to appeal the decision of the building
inspector. The board shall adopt its own rules of procedure and shall
keep a record of its proceedings, showing the action of each question
considered.

   D.   Clerk Of Board: The town clerk shall act as clerk of the board.
(Ord. 531, 9-1-2015)

11-3-2: JURISDICTION:

In specific cases, the board of adjustment may authorize by permit a
variation of the application of the use, height, and area district
regulation herein established in harmony with their general purpose and
intent as follows:

   A.   Permit a temporary building for commerce or for industry in a
residence district which is incidental to a residential development,
such permit to be issued for not more than a period of one year.

   B.   Permit the erection and use of a building or the use of land in
any location for a public service corporation for public utility purpose
which the board admits reasonably necessary for the public convenience
and welfare.

   C.   Interpret the provisions of this title in such a way as to carry
out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the building zone
map, fixing the several districts accompanying and made part of this
title where the street layout actually on the ground varies from the
street layout as shown on the building zone map aforesaid.

   D.   Where there are no practical difficulties or unnecessary
hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of this title,
the board of adjustment shall have the power in passing upon appeals to
vary or modify the application of any of the regulations or provisions
of this title relating to use, construction or alterations of buildings
or structures or the use of land so that the spirit of this title shall
be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice
done. (1997 Code §17.44.030)

11-3-3: APPEALS; NOTICE:

   A.   Appeal From Ruling Of Building Inspector: Appeal from the ruling
of the building inspector concerning the enforcement of the provisions
of this title may be made to the board of adjustment within thirty (30)
days from the date of the ruling by the building inspector. The
applicant shall file with the building inspector and with the board of
adjustment a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The
building inspector shall forthwith transmit to the board all papers
constituting the record from which the appealed action was taken.

   B.   Appeals As To Class Of Certain Districts: When any district has
been classified or is about to be classified, the owners thereof may
appeal to the board for a higher classification. It shall be the duty of
the board to carefully examine all the facts and to determine all
present usages which are below the requirements of the higher class
requested and the board shall have authority to require the elimination
or correction of any one, any part, or all of the nonconforming usages
as may be justified by the circumstances before such higher
classification is assigned to such district. (1997 Code §17.44.020)

   C.   Notice Sent And Posted: A written notice of an appeal to or an
appeal from the board of adjustment shall be sent by the town clerk to
all landowners on the same block and to all landowners whose land is
adjacent to the street of the property described in any such appeal.
Notice shall be sent by first class United States mail, postage prepaid.
Notice shall also be posted at town hall in the same manner as notices
of regular or special meetings of the board of trustees. Notice shall be
sent and shall be posted at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing. In the event that adjacent property is held in common
ownership, notice shall be sent to the appropriate homeowners' or
condominium association. (Ord. 499, 2-7-2011)

CHAPTER 4
GENERAL DESIGN AND USE REQUIREMENTS

SECTION:

11-4-1: Nonconforming Uses

11-4-2: Area Exceptions

11-4-3: Akron-Washington County Airport Clear Zone

11-4-4: Modular Units And Sectional Homes

11-4-5: Basement Houses And Moving Houses

11-4-6: Setback On Corner Lots

11-4-1: NONCONFORMING USES:

   A.   Existing Large Residences: In the A residence district, large
residences which exist at the time of the passage of the ordinance
codified in this title may be used as two-family dwellings; provided,
however, that the provisions of this title as to the lot area per family
and the floor area per dwelling are observed.

   B.   Existing Land Uses: The lawful use of land existing at the time
of the passage of said ordinance, although such use does not conform to
the provisions hereof, may be continued, but if such nonconforming use
is discontinued, any future use of the land shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this title.

   C.   Existing Use Of Buildings: The lawful use of a building or part
thereof, existing at the time of the passage of said ordinance, may be
continued although such use does not conform to the provisions hereof,
and such use may be extended throughout the building, provided no
structural alterations, except those required by law or ordinance, are
made therein.

   D.   Changing Building Use: Whenever a nonconforming use of a
building has been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming
use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted use.
When a building, the use of which does not conform to the use
regulations of this title, is damaged by fire, explosion, flood, act of
God, or a public enemy, to the extent of more than seventy five percent
(75%) of its fair value, it shall not be restored except in conformity
with the regulations of the district in which it is situated.

   E.   Reconstruction Of Church Buildings: Nothing in this section,
however, shall prevent the reconstruction of church buildings existing
at the time of the passage of said ordinance. (1997 Code §17.40.010)

11-4-2: AREA EXCEPTIONS:

The area regulations in the various districts shall be subject to the
following exceptions, and regulations:

   A.   In the C residence district, a living room and bedroom may be
combined.

   B.   Building on through lots and running from street to street may
waive the requirements of rear yard by furnishing required open space in
lieu of such required rear yard.

   C.   Every part of a required yard or court shall be open from its
lowest point to the sky unobstructed, except for the ordinary projection
of sills, cornices, ornamental features and eaves; provided, however,
that none of the above projections shall project into a court more than
six inches (6") nor into a minimum side yard more than twenty four
inches (24").

   D.   No cornice shall project over the street line more than five
percent (5%) of the width of such street, and shall in no case project
more than four feet (4'); provided, further, no projection, sign or
fixture shall interfere with the proper driving or parking of legal
vehicles.

   E.   An accessory building may occupy not more than thirty percent
(30%) of the rear yard, and shall not be closer to the main building
than seven feet (7') unless it is made a portion of the main building.

   F.   No yard, court or other open space provided about any building
for the purpose of complying with the provisions of these regulations
shall be used as a yard, court or other open space for another building.
(1997 Code §17.40.020)

11-4-3: AKRON-WASHINGTON COUNTY AIRPORT CLEAR ZONE:

   A.   Akron-Washington County Airport Restriction: No structure will
be constructed on any land in the area of the Akron- Washington County
Airport which could be used for an incompatible land use. No structure
shall be permitted which in any way would interfere with the clear zone
as established and as same may be amended from time to time by federal
aviation administration rules and regulations.

   B.   Landfills And Treatment Plants Near Runway: No landfills or
treatment plants will be constructed within ten thousand feet (10,000')
of any runway at the airport. (1997 Code §17.40.030)

11-4-4: MODULAR UNITS AND SECTIONAL HOMES:

   A.   Modular Units: Any modular unit or sectional home which bears
the certificate from the state of Colorado, division of housing, that it
is a factory built unit and that it complies with the Colorado standards
for factory built construction shall be considered as a permanent
structure and may be placed in any location in any district within the
town; provided, that it complies with the required use, dwelling area,
height, rear yard, side yard and setback provisions of this title.

   B.   Mobile Homes: A mobile home which bears the certification from
the state of Colorado, division of housing, that it is a mobile home and
is constructed under mobile home construction standards of the state of
Colorado, and also any mobile home, modular unit or sectional home which
does not bear any certification from the state of Colorado shall be
considered as a mobile home and may be placed only within districts D, E
or F. (1997 Code §17.40.040)

11-4-5: BASEMENT HOUSES AND MOVING HOUSES:

   A.   Basement Houses Prohibited: No "basement house", as defined in
this title, shall be erected in the town.

   B.   Moving Houses; Requirements:

      1.   No house, already constructed or partially constructed, shall
be moved into or within the town without the approval of the board of
adjustment.

      2.   Before moving a house into the town, or from one lot to a
different lot within the town, application shall be made to the board of
adjustment.

      3.   The application shall be accompanied by a detailed set of
plans and specifications of the finished house. (1997 Code §17.40.050)

11-4-6: SETBACK ON CORNER LOTS:

On all corner lots within all areas within the town, the following
setback regulations shall apply:

   A.   There shall be a forty two inch (42") setback from both corners
for a chainlink fence which shall be no more than forty eight inches
(48") high.

   B.   Private fences shall have a forty two inch (42") setback from
the curb and an eleven foot (11') setback from the corner itself with a
diagonal clear space between the two (2) 11-foot setbacks.

   C.   Buildings will be placed and bushes and other vegetation will be
trimmed to allow the same clear view to motorists as provided in
subsections A and B of this section. (Ord. 460, 7-7-2003)

CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS

SECTION:

11-5-1: Districts Established; Map; General Regulations

11-5-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; MAP; GENERAL REGULATIONS:

   A.   Districts Established; Annexations:

      1.   In order to regulate and restrict the location of trades,
callings, industries and location of buildings designated for specific
uses, and in order to regulate and limit the height of the buildings
hereinafter erected or structurally altered, to regulate and determine
the area of yards and other open spaces about buildings, the town is
divided into major districts known as:

         AA residence district

         A residence district

         B residence district

         C residence district

         D business and commercial district

         E industrial district

         F mobile home park district

         R ranchette district

(1997 Code §17.08.010; amd. 2016 Code)

      2.   Provided, however, that any area annexed to the town after
the effective date of the ordinance codified in this section shall by
such annexation be automatically classified as an AA residence district;
provided further, that the petition for annexation may incorporate a
request for a different zoning and if the zoning request in the petition
to annex is approved by the town board in the annexing ordinance, the
new zoning shall apply to the area annexed. (1997 Code §17.08.010)

   B.   Map; Restrictions And Requirements: The town is divided into
districts as shown upon the map attached to the ordinance codified in
this section, being designated as the "building zone map", and the map
and all notations, references and other things shown thereon, shall be
as much a part of this title as if the matter and things set forth by
the map were fully described herein, except as hereinafter provided:
(1997 Code §17.08.010; amd. 2016 Code)

      1.   No building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally
altered, nor shall any building or premises be used for any purpose
other than is permitted in the district in which such building or
premises is located.

      2.   No building shall be erected or structurally altered to
exceed in height the limit herein established for any district in which
such building is located.

      3.   No lot area shall be so reduced or diminished that the yards
or other open spaces shall be smaller than prescribed by this title, nor
shall the lot area per family be reduced in any manner except in
conformity with the area regulations established for the district in
which such building is located.

      4.   No garage larger than a three (3) car garage shall be built
in any district without first being allowed through variance. The height
of any garage shall be appropriate to the adjacent home (i.e.,
single-story homes shall have single-story garages, two-story homes may
have two-story garages, etc.).

      5.   The primary entrance to the dwelling must face the street
upon which the address is based.

      6.   Covenants shall be required and must be presented before
acceptance of any subdivision plat or approval of any annexation plat.

      7.   Any variance which shall be granted by the board of
adjustment allowing for a nonconforming use shall be in writing, with
specific provisions included therein.

      8.   Any business granted by variance shall be subject to an
annual fee, to be set from time to time by the board of trustees in the
policies of the town. (1997 Code §17.08.010)

ARTICLE A. AA RESIDENCE DISTRICT

SECTION:

11-5A-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations

11-5A-2: Dwelling Area Per Family

11-5A-3: Height

11-5A-4: Rear Yard

11-5A-5: Side Yard

11-5A-6: Setback

11-5A-7: Corner Lots

11-5A-8: Lot Area

11-5A-9: Finish

11-5A-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:

No building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter
erected or structurally altered, unless otherwise provided in this
title, except for one or more of the following uses:

   A.   One-family dwellings.

   B.   Schools (elementary and high).

   C.   Churches; provided, that before a new church may be constructed
upon the property, where no church was there before located, the written
consent of sixty percent (60%) of the persons owning property within
three hundred feet (300') of such location shall first be obtained.

   D.   Accessory buildings including one private garage which may be
multiple spaces when located not less than sixty feet (60') from the
front property line or a private garage within or attached to a
dwelling.

   E.   Parks and playgrounds. (1997 Code §17.12.010)

11-5A-2: DWELLING AREA PER FAMILY:

The total dwelling area per family shall be not less than one thousand
two hundred (1,200) square feet of living area above grade, excluding
basement. (1997 Code §17.12.020)

11-5A-3: HEIGHT:

No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed
thirty five feet (35') in height nor two (2) stories above foundations
or basement. (1997 Code §17.12.030)

11-5A-4: REAR YARD:

There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten feet (10'). (1997 Code
§17.12.040)

11-5A-5: SIDE YARD:

There shall be a side yard on each side of a building of not less than
five feet (5') in width. (1997 Code §17.12.050)

11-5A-6: SETBACK:

There shall be a setback of not less than twenty feet (20'); provided,
however, that where lots comprising twenty five percent (25%) or more of
the frontage of any block are developed with buildings having a
predominant setback, no building hereafter erected or structurally
altered shall project beyond the predominant setback line so
established; provided further, that this regulation shall not be
interpreted so as to require a setback of more than fifty feet (50').
(1997 Code §17.12.060)

11-5A-7: CORNER LOTS:

On corner lots, the front of the building shall comply with the setback
requirement of the street upon which the front of the building faces.
The side of the building shall be set back as per the requirements for
the setback for the front of the building. (1997 Code §17.12.070)

11-5A-8: LOT AREA:

Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall provide a
lot area of not less than eight thousand (8,000) square feet per family.
(1997 Code §17.12.080)

11-5A-9: FINISH:

All structures, including accessory buildings or structures, shall be
finished in a neat and workmanlike manner by paint, stucco or other
finish suitable for the type of materials used in their construction.
(1997 Code §17.12.090)

ARTICLE B. A RESIDENCE DISTRICT

SECTION:

11-5B-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations

11-5B-2: Dwelling Area Per Family

11-5B-3: Height

11-5B-4: Rear Yard

11-5B-5: Side Yard

11-5B-6: Setback

11-5B-7: Corner Lots

11-5B-8: Lot Area Per Family

11-5B-9: Finish

11-5B-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:

No building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter
erected or structurally altered, unless otherwise provided for in this
title, except for one or more of the following uses:

   A.   Any use permitted in AA residence district.

   B.   The keeping of not more than two (2) roomers, boarders,
convalescent patients or tourists for compensation in a single-family
dwelling.

   C.   Home occupations:

      1.   Customary home offices when situated in the same dwelling or
garage; provided, that the office is not used for a general practice,
but only occasionally in conjunction with a principal office elsewhere.

      2.   Computer based or telecommunications based businesses when
all work is done by telecommunications or satellite, and home visits by
business associates, clients or customers is only incidental and is not
on a regular basis.

      3.   Foster family care of not more than two (2) children
simultaneously.

      4.   Home visits for all businesses allowed or granted shall be
only incidental to the operation of the business, with the exception of
daycare, homecare and private instruction, in which case home visits may
be on a regular basis, but only incidental; included shall be studio
room use for music, voice, dance, art, or academic instruction of not
more than two (2) students at any one time.

      5.   Daycare homes, staffed by occupant only, as permitted under
Colorado state regulations.

      6.   Single operator custom millinery, tailoring, sewing of fabric
for custom apparel and custom home furnishings and upholstering.

   D.   All home occupations permitted in subsection C of this section
shall be subject to the following restrictions:

      1.   Such use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling or
garage and carried on by the inhabitants thereof and no others.

      2.   Such use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the building for dwelling or garage purposes and shall not change the
character thereof.

      3.   Such office shall not constitute over fifty percent (50%) of
the first floor space, daycare homes excluded.

      4.   There shall be no advertising signs or other display or
indications of home occupation.

      5.   There shall be no retaining or wholesaling of stock, supplies
or products conducted on the premises.

      6.   There shall be no exterior storage on the premises of
material used in the home occupation, nor any highly explosive, toxic or
combustible material.

      7.   There shall be no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust,
odors, heat, or glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.

      8.   There shall be no body or mechanical repair of motor
vehicles, to include any modification, assembly or painting of motor
vehicles nor repair of internal combustion engines.

      9.   Should any home occupation be granted by variance that
includes studios or rooms for instruction, it shall provide additional
off street parking adequate to accommodate all needs created by the home
occupation.

      10.   The hours of such uses and such occupation and the manner of
such use and noise are not such as to interfere with the peace, quiet or
dignity of the neighborhood and the adjoining properties. (1997 Code
§17.16.010)

11-5B-2: DWELLING AREA PER FAMILY:

The total dwelling area per family shall not be less than one thousand
two hundred (1,200) square feet of living area above grade, excluding
basement. (1997 Code §17.16.020)

11-5B-3: HEIGHT:

No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed
thirty five feet (35') in height nor two (2) stories above the
foundation or basement. (1997 Code §17.16.030)

11-5B-4: REAR YARD:

There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten feet (10'). (1997 Code
§17.16.040)

11-5B-5: SIDE YARD:

There shall be a side yard on each side of a building not less than five
feet (5') in width, except that an existing structure may be rebuilt,
structurally altered, or extended along the same line, within the five
foot (5') limit, provided the structure is no closer to the adjoining
property line than was the original structure and provided it is
completed within two (2) years of the time the existing structure is
removed or construction commenced. (1997 Code §17.16.050)

11-5B-6: SETBACK:

There shall be a setback of not less than twenty feet (20'); provided,
however, that where lots comprising twenty five percent (25%) or more of
the frontage of any block are developed with buildings having a
predominant setback, no building hereafter erected or structurally
altered shall project beyond the predominant setback line so
established; provided further, that this regulation shall not be
interpreted so as to require a setback of more than fifty feet (50').
(1997 Code §17.16.060)

11-5B-7: CORNER LOTS:

On corner lots, the dwelling shall set back a minimum of twenty feet
(20') from the front of the lot, subject to provisions in setback, as
provided in section 11-5B-6 of this article, and no setback from the
street side of the lot. (1997 Code §17.16.070)

11-5B-8: LOT AREA PER FAMILY:

Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall provide a
lot area of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet per family;
provided, however, that where a lot has less than herein required, as
shown by the last recorded sale at the time of the passage of the
ordinance codified in this title, the lot may be occupied by not more
than one family. (1997 Code §17.16.080)

11-5B-9: FINISH:

All structures, including accessory buildings and structures, shall be
finished in a neat and workmanlike manner by paint, stucco or other
finish suitable for the type of materials used in their construction.
(1997 Code §17.16.090)

ARTICLE C. B RESIDENCE DISTRICT

SECTION:

11-5C-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations

11-5C-2: Dwelling Area Per Family

11-5C-3: Height

11-5C-4: Rear Yard

11-5C-5: Side Yard

11-5C-6: Setback

11-5C-7: Corner Lots

11-5C-8: Lot Area Per Dwelling

11-5C-9: Finish

11-5C-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:

No building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter
erected or structurally altered, unless otherwise provided for in this
title, except for one or more of the following uses:

   A.   Any use permitted in the A residence district.

   B.   Churches.

   C.   Two-family dwellings.

   D.   Home occupations. Customary home occupation of a physician,
dentist or other professional person or artist when situated in the same
dwelling; provided, that:

      1.   The office is conducted in conjunction with the use of a
dwelling unit as a home occupant.

      2.   The office is not used for a general practice of medicine,
surgery, dentistry, osteopathic or chiropractic treatment, but may be
used for consultation as an adjunct to a principal office located
elsewhere.

      3.   The hours of such uses and such office and the manner of use
and noise are not such as to interfere with the peace, quiet or dignity
of the neighborhood and the adjoining properties.

   E.   Home occupations subject to the restrictions in subsection
11-5B-1D of this chapter (A residence district regulations):

      1.   Daycare homes for two (2) elder adults in addition to
residents of the dwelling.

      2.   Placard style window signs only are allowed and must be
preapproved. Size cannot exceed one point five feet by two feet (1.5' x
2') in size. (1997 Code §17.20.010)

11-5C-2: DWELLING AREA PER FAMILY:

The total dwelling area per family shall be not less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet measured on the outside walls. (1997 Code
§17.20.020)

11-5C-3: HEIGHT:

No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed
thirty five feet (35') in height nor two (2) stories above the
foundation level or basement. (1997 Code §17.20.030)

11-5C-4: REAR YARD:

There shall be a rear yard not less than ten feet (10'). (1997 Code
§17.20.040)

11-5C-5: SIDE YARD:

There shall be a side yard on each side of a building not less than five
feet (5') in width, except that an existing structure may be rebuilt,
structurally altered, or extended along the same line, within the five
foot (5') limit, provided the structure is no closer to the adjoining
property line than was the original structure and provided it is
completed within two (2) years of the time the existing structure is
removed or construction commenced. (1997 Code §17.20.050)

11-5C-6: SETBACK:

There shall be a setback of not less than twenty feet (20'); provided,
however, that where lots comprising twenty five percent (25%) or more of
the frontage of any block are developed with buildings having a
predominant setback, no buildings hereafter erected or structurally
altered shall project beyond the predominant setback line so
established; provided further, that this regulation shall not be
interpreted so as to require a setback of more than forty feet (40').
(1997 Code §17.20.060)

11-5C-7: CORNER LOTS:

The regulations for the A residence district shall apply here. (1997
Code §17.20.070)

11-5C-8: LOT AREA PER DWELLING:

Every dwelling hereafter erected or structurally altered shall provide a
lot area of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet; provided,
however, that where a lot has less area than herein required, as shown
by the last recorded sale at the time of the passage of the ordinance
codified in this title, the lot may be occupied by not more than one
family. (1997 Code §17.20.080)

11-5C-9: FINISH:

All structures, including accessory buildings and structures, shall be
finished in a neat and workmanlike manner by paint, stucco or other
finish suitable for the type of materials used in their construction.
(1997 Code §17.20.090)

ARTICLE D. C RESIDENCE DISTRICT

SECTION:

11-5D-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations

11-5D-2: Dwelling Area Per Family

11-5D-3: Height

11-5D-4: Side Yard

11-5D-5: Setback

11-5D-6: Corner Lots

11-5D-7: Lot Area Per Family

11-5D-8: Parking

11-5D-9: Finish

11-5D-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:

No building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter
erected or structurally altered unless otherwise provided for in this
title, except one or more of the following uses:

   A.   Any use permitted in the B residence district.

   B.   Apartment houses.

   C.   Hotels.

   D.   Hospitals, clinics and professional and business offices.

   E.   Boarding and rooming houses.

   F.   Daycare centers and institutions of an educational,
philanthropic or eleemosynary nature.

   G.   Private clubs, fraternities, lodges, excepting those of which
the chief activity is a service customarily carried on as a business.

   H.   Accessory buildings and uses incident to any of the above uses
when located on the same lot and not involving the conduct of a
business.

   I.   Mortuaries.

   J.   The keeping of not more than two (2) roomers, boarders,
convalescent patients or tourists for compensation in a single-family
dwelling.

   K.   The selling of products and craftwork manufactured and created
by the occupant.

   L.   One operator beauty shops.

   M.   Fine arts studios.

   N.   All signs must be preapproved, and cannot exceed four feet by
six feet (4'x6') in size. (1997 Code §17.24.010)

11-5D-2: DWELLING AREA PER FAMILY:

The total dwelling area per family shall not be less than eight hundred
(800) square feet, measured on the outside walls. (1997 Code §17.24.020)

11-5D-3: HEIGHT:

No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed forty
feet (40') or more than three (3) stories in height. (1997 Code
§17.24.030)

11-5D-4: SIDE YARD:

There shall be a side yard on each side of a building not less than five
feet (5') in width, except that an existing structure may be rebuilt,
structurally altered, or extended along the same line, within the five
foot (5') limit, provided the structure is no closer to the adjoining
property line than was the original structure and provided it is
completed within two (2) years of the time the existing structure is
removed or construction commenced; provided further, that on a lot
having a width of less than forty feet (40') as shown by the last
recorded sale, there shall be a side yard on each side of a building of
not less than three feet (3') in width, subject to the same conditions
as to rebuilding, structural alteration or extension. (1997 Code
§17.24.040)

11-5D-5: SETBACK:

There shall be a setback of not less than twenty feet (20') subject to
the provision in regard to predominant setback in the B residence
district. (1997 Code §17.24.050)

11-5D-6: CORNER LOTS:

The same as requirements for B residence district. (1997 Code
§17.24.060)

11-5D-7: LOT AREA PER FAMILY:

For one- and/or two-family dwellings, the minimum lot area per family
shall be two thousand seven hundred fifty (2,750) square feet. For
apartment houses, the minimum lot area per family shall be five hundred
(500) square feet. (1997 Code §17.24.070)

11-5D-8: PARKING:

For apartment houses, the owner shall provide off street parking for at
least one automobile for each family dwelling unit. (1997 Code
§17.24.080)

11-5D-9: FINISH:

All structures, including accessory buildings and structures, shall be
finished in a neat and workmanlike manner by paint, stucco or other
finish suitable for the type of materials used in their construction.
(1997 Code §17.24.090)

ARTICLE E. D BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL DISTRICT

SECTION:

11-5E-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations

11-5E-2: Height

11-5E-3: Side Yard

11-5E-4: Setback

11-5E-5: Lot Area Per Family

11-5E-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:

No building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter
erected or structurally altered unless otherwise provided for in this
title, except for one or more of the following uses:

   A.   Any use permitted in the C residence district.

   B.   Retail business stores and shops.

   C.   Banks, office buildings, studios and hotels.

   D.   Gasoline and oil service stations.

   E.   Restaurant, cafes, tearooms and other places serving food.

   F.   Theaters and amusement houses.

   G.   Personal offices, or service shops, such as barber, shoeshine,
beauty parlors.

   H.   Public buildings, assembly halls or auditoriums.

   I.   Baking confectionery, dressmaking, dyeing, laundry, tailoring,
upholstery, cleaning or other similar establishments, provided all foods
or other products manufactured or processed shall be sold at retail on
the premises; and further provided, that all such manufacturing or
processing shall be done on the premises.

   J.   Bus stations, garages, automobile sales rooms and parking lots,
trailer sales lots, used car lots, taxi stands.

   K.   Feed and seed stores.

   L.   Cottage camps or motels.

   M.   Retail cold storage locker plants, provided slaughtering
activities shall not be permitted.

   N.   Any similar lawful use which, in the opinion of the board of
adjustment is not objectionable to nearby property by reason of odor,
dust, smoke fumes, gas, noise or vibration, or is not hazardous to the
health and property of the surrounding area through danger of fire or
explosion. (1997 Code §17.28.010)

11-5E-2: HEIGHT:

No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed forty
feet (40') or three (3) stories in height. (1997 Code §17.28.020)

11-5E-3: SIDE YARD:

For business buildings, no side yard shall be required; but if provided,
shall be not less than five feet (5'). For residences, the side yard
shall be the same as required in the C residence district. (1997 Code
§17.28.030)

11-5E-4: SETBACK:

There are no setback requirements for a business building. For residence
buildings, the setback shall be the same as in the C residence district.
(1997 Code §17.28.040)

11-5E-5: LOT AREA PER FAMILY:

For one- and/or two-family dwellings, the minimum lot area per family
shall be two thousand seven hundred fifty (2,750) square feet. For
apartment houses, the minimum lot area per family shall be five hundred
(500) square feet. (1997 Code §17.28.050)

ARTICLE F. E INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

SECTION:

11-5F-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations

11-5F-2: Height

11-5F-3: Side Yard

11-5F-4: Setback

11-5F-5: Lot Area Per Family

11-5F-6: Parking

11-5F-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:

Buildings and land may be used for any purpose whatsoever, not in
conflict with any ordinance of the town regulating nuisances; provided,
however, that no building or occupancy permit shall be issued for any of
the following uses until and unless the locations of such uses shall
have been approved by the board of adjustment:

   A.   Stockyard or slaughter of animals or fowl.

   B.   Explosives, manufacture or storage.

   C.   Petroleum refining or processing.

   D.   Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping.

   E.   The processing, disposal, storage or manufacture of anything
which in itself by process of manufacture or in its completed stage is
noxious, constitutes a fire hazard or is dangerous for any reason. (1997
Code §17.32.010)

11-5F-2: HEIGHT:

No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed forty
feet (40') or three (3) stories in height. (Ord. 562, 10-7-2019)

11-5F-3: SIDE YARD:

For business buildings, no side yard shall be required; but if provided,
shall be not less than five feet (5'). For residences, the side yard
shall be the same as required in the C residence district. (Ord. 562,
10-7-2019)

11-5F-4: SETBACK:

There are no setback requirements for a business building. For
residential buildings, the setback shall be the same as in the C
residence district. (Ord. 562, 10-7-2019)

11-5F-5: LOT AREA PER FAMILY:

For one- and/or two-family dwellings, the minimum lot area per family
shall be two thousand seven hundred fifty (2,750) square feet. For
apartment houses, the minimum lot area per family shall be five hundred
(500) square feet. (Ord. 562, 10-7-2019)

11-5F-6: PARKING:

There are no parking requirements for business or industrial buildings.
For apartment houses, the owner shall provide off street parking for at
least one automobile for each family dwelling unit. (Ord. 562,
10-7-2019)

ARTICLE G. R RANCHETTE DISTRICT

SECTION:

11-5G-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations

11-5G-2: Dwelling Area Per Family

11-5G-3: Height

11-5G-4: Improvement Location

11-5G-5: Lot Area

11-5G-6: Sanitary Sewer

11-5G-7: Livestock; Fencing

11-5G-8: Roads And Drainage

11-5G-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:

No building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter
erected or structurally altered, unless as provided in this title,
except for one or more of the following uses:

   A.   One-family dwelling.

   B.   Schools (elementary and high).

   C.   Churches; provided, that before a new church may be constructed
upon the property, where no church was there before located, the written
consent of sixty percent (60%) of the persons owning property within
three hundred feet (300') of such location shall first be obtained.

   D.   Accessory buildings not to exceed three (3) in number including
a garage. Any structure, garage, barn, shed, stall or other outbuilding
shall be attached to permanent cement footing, caisson, and/or pole
foundation. (1997 Code §17.10.010)

11-5G-2: DWELLING AREA PER FAMILY:

Each residential structure shall be a minimum of one thousand (1,000)
square feet measured on the outside walls. A two-story home or larger
must have a minimum of eight hundred (800) square feet on ground floor
level and a minimum of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of
living space. (1997 Code §17.10.020)

11-5G-3: HEIGHT:

No buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed
thirty five feet (35') in height or more than two (2) stories above
foundations or basement. (1997 Code §17.10.030)

11-5G-4: IMPROVEMENT LOCATION:

No structure shall be erected less than ten feet (10') from the property
line on all sides. (1997 Code §17.10.040)

11-5G-5: LOT AREA:

Lots will be a minimum of two and one-half (21/2) acres which shall
include rights of way for roads, water line and utility easements. (1997
Code §17.10.050)

11-5G-6: SANITARY SEWER:

It is understood that current regulations of the Colorado department of
health permit a septic tank on any property containing two and one-half
(21/2) acres or more. The owners of property in this zone shall be
required to install and maintain their own septic system, leachfield and
associated waste disposal facility which will comply with the rules and
regulations of the Northeast Colorado health department and shall be
approved by them before installation. The town shall have no obligation
to provide sanitary sewer services to any lot. (1997 Code §17.10.060)

11-5G-7: LIVESTOCK; FENCING:

Animal Units Limited: No more than five (5) animal units shall be
maintained, pastured or held at any one time. Animal units are defined
in Section 6-7-16(C).

  ------ --------------
  TYPE   ANIMAL UNITS
  ------ --------------

TYPE

ANIMAL UNITS

Cattle

   Any age

1.00

Equine

   Horse

1.00

   Donkey

0.66

   Miniature Horse

0.33

Sheep

   Any age

0.33

Goats

   All breads and ages

0.33

Swine

   Hog

0.33

Elk

   Any age

1.00

Buffalo

   Any age

1.33

Llamas and Alpacas

   Any age

0.50

Fowl, Game Birds, Other Small Animals

   Ostriches, emus, rheas

0.50

   Rabbits

0.10

   Mature Chickens, Turkeys, Geese, Ducks

0.10

 

(Ord. 561, 10-7-2019; amd. Ord. 564, 12-9-2019)

11-5G-8: ROADS AND DRAINAGE:

It is understood that the person or persons seeking this zoning shall
provide for adequate drainage of the property and the town will have no
obligation to pave the dedicated streets. (1997 Code §17.10.090)

CHAPTER 6
MOBILE HOMES, MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS AND PARKS

ARTICLE A. MOBILE HOMES GENERALLY

SECTION:

11-6A-1: Purpose

11-6A-2: Definitions

11-6A-3: Location Of Mobile Homes

11-6A-4: Procedure For New Mobile Home Development

11-6A-1: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter and chapter 7 of this title, is to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the people of the town. Furthermore,
it is the intent of said chapters and articles to achieve the following:

   A.   To make provision for an alternative choice in housing.

   B.   To encourage efficient and functional use of land for mobile
home parks and subdivisions.

   C.   To minimize potential impacts on surrounding land uses through
the site plan process. (1997 Code §17.36.010)

11-6A-2: DEFINITIONS:

The words and phrases in this chapter and chapter 7 of this title have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section:

BUILDING INSPECTOR: The designated building inspector of the town.

COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the town.

LOT: A portion of a subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of
property ownership or for development.

MOBILE HOME: Manufactured housing designated for long term residential
use and built on a chassis so that it can be transported to a site and
be connected to public utility systems.

MOBILE HOME DEVELOPMENT: A mobile home park or a mobile home
subdivision.

MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel of land under single ownership or control,
and licensed as a mobile home park as provided for in this chapter.

MOBILE HOME PARK PERMITS: A written permit issued by the building
official permitting the construction, alteration or operation of a
mobile home park.

MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed
for the accommodation of one mobile home.

MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended to provide
individual lots for residential occupancy in a mobile home.

TOWN BOARD: The town board of trustees.

TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle designed primarily for use as a portable
temporary dwelling unit for travel, recreational or camping purposes,
either self-propelled or mounted on or towed by another powered vehicle.

TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: An area clearly defined and separate from a mobile
home park area, with individual parking spaces for not less than twenty
(20) travel trailers, which may or may not have facilities for a
temporary hookup of electrical and plumbing outlets, commonly known as a
camping area. (1997 Code §17.36.020; amd. 2016 Code)

11-6A-3: LOCATION OF MOBILE HOMES:

   A.   Location In Mobile Home Developments: Mobile homes shall be
located in mobile home developments approved by the town in accordance
with procedures set forth in this chapter. The location and
establishment of mobile home developments shall be subject to all
applicable provisions of this title. Further, no mobile home shall be
occupied for dwelling purposes unless the mobile home is properly placed
in a mobile home space or lot and is connected to water, sewage,
electric and gas utilities as appropriate.

   B.   Parking Outside Developments Restricted: Except as otherwise
provided for in this code, no mobile home shall be parked anywhere in
the town. (1997 Code §17.36.030)

11-6A-4: PROCEDURE FOR NEW MOBILE HOME DEVELOPMENT:

   A.   Site Plan Submittal And Approval: Before any permits can be
issued for construction of a mobile home development, a site plan shall
be submitted and approved by the town board.

   B.   Approval Of Subdivision Plat: Applicants for mobile home
subdivisions, in addition to meeting site plan requirements as stated in
subsection A of this section, shall obtain town board approval of a
subdivision plat in accordance with the provisions of the land
subdivision regulations of the town.

   C.   Existing Parks:

      1.   Not Affected: Mobile home parks legally existing on the date
of adoption of this chapter shall not be affected by the provisions of
this chapter unless:

         a.   An expansion of the park is requested; or

         b.   An increase in the number of mobile home spaces over that
approved on their mobile home park permit requested.

      2.   Annual Licensing And Fees: Mobile home parks legally existing
on the date of adoption of this chapter shall be subject to the annual
licensing process and fees as set forth in this chapter. (1997 Code
§17.36.040)

ARTICLE B. MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS

SECTION:

11-6B-1: Applicability

11-6B-2: Bulk Requirements

11-6B-3: Off Street Parking Requirements

11-6B-4: Street And Sidewalk Design Standards

11-6B-5: Utility Design Requirements

11-6B-6: Building Code Requirements

11-6B-7: Homeowners' Association

11-6B-1: APPLICABILITY:

The following standards and requirements shall apply to mobile home
subdivisions. (1997 Code §17.36.050)

11-6B-2: BULK REQUIREMENTS:

The following are the minimum requirements for mobile home subdivisions.
Aesthetic, environmental or facility design may necessitate exceeding
the minimum specified.

   A.   Parcel size: Five (5) acres.

   B.   Parcel street frontage: Fifty feet (50').

   C.   Singlewide unit lot size: Four thousand (4,000) square feet.

   D.   Singlewide unit lot frontage: Forty feet (40').

   E.   Doublewide unit lot space: Five thousand (5,000) square feet.

   F.   Doublewide unit lot frontage: Fifty feet (50').

   G.   Front setback from property line: Fifteen feet (15').

   H.   Rear setback: Ten feet (10').

   I.   Side setback: Five feet (5').

   J.   Usable open space per lot: One thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet.

   K.   Side and rear spacing of mobile homes shall provide for a
minimum of twenty feet (20') between units.

   L.   The required lot frontage may be measured along the front
setback line; provided, however, the lot width at the street line, as
measured in a straight line where the lot lines intersect the street
lines, is a minimum of twenty feet (20').

   M.   Only one mobile home dwelling unit shall be allowed on each lot.
(1997 Code §17.36.060)

11-6B-3: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:

   A.   Every mobile home lot shall include two (2) paved off street
parking spaces located five feet (5') to the rear of the front lot line.
In order to meet this requirement, tandem parking design can be
utilized.

   B.   Where open space community facilities or other amenity is
provided, provision shall be made for user parking off the street in
accordance with the provision of this title. (1997 Code §17.36.070)

11-6B-4: STREET AND SIDEWALK DESIGN STANDARDS:

All streets in the mobile home subdivision shall be dedicated to the
public and built to town street construction standards and
specifications, and also the following:

   A.   Sidewalk width shall be four feet (4') plus a one foot (1')
gutter pan.

   B.   The cul-de-sac right of way diameter shall be eighty feet (80').
(1997 Code §17.36.080)

11-6B-5: UTILITY DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:

All public facilities shall be installed underground in accordance with
the uniform plumbing code of the Colorado department of health, the
national electrical code and town standards for single-family
residential service. (1997 Code §17.36.090)

11-6B-6: BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS:

   A.   Certification: All mobile homes in mobile home subdivisions
shall be certified as meeting the mobile home construction and safety
standards of the U.S. department of housing and urban development.

   B.   Permit Requirements; Fees:

      1.   Prior to moving any mobile home into a mobile home
subdivision, the owner or the other authorized person shall obtain a
permit issued by the building inspector. The permit shall be valid for a
period of ninety (90) days following its issuance. No permit shall be
issued to set up a mobile home unless the mobile home to be set up is in
conformance with the approved site plan of the mobile home subdivision.
This permit shall include provisions that the mobile home owner shall be
responsible for any damages to streets, sidewalks or other public areas
or structures within the mobile home subdivision that may be caused in
moving the mobile home onto the lot.

      2.   A permit shall be required to move a mobile home from a
mobile home lot. The building inspector shall issue these permits and
the permit shall include provisions that the owner shall be responsible
for any damages to streets, sidewalks or other public areas or
structures within the mobile home subdivision that may be caused in
moving the mobile home from a lot. The permit shall also be conditioned
upon proper disconnection from public utilities.

      3.   Fees for any of the permits required by this section shall be
established by the town board by resolution from time to time.

   C.   Skirting: Skirting of an acceptable quality shall be attached to
all mobile homes within ninety (90) days of the date of issuance of the
permit.

   D.   Tie Down Requirements: Mobile homes shall be tied down in
accordance with the stabilization and anchorage instructions furnished
by the mobile home manufacturers.

   E.   Inspection; Certificate Of Occupancy: Prior to occupancy, the
building inspector shall inspect each mobile home to determine
compliance with this article. No occupancy shall be permitted or
certificate of occupancy issued until the inspection and all connections
to public utilities have been made. (1997 Code §17.36.100)

11-6B-7: HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION:

All mobile home subdivision developers shall establish an association of
property owners. The association shall satisfy standards established by
the town board by resolution to include, but not limited to, the
following:

   A.   Mandatory participation in association of property owners to
maintain all common areas, buffer areas and vacant lots within the
subdivision to enforce restrictive covenants;

   B.   Binding effect on all future property owners;

   C.   Perpetual existence;

   D.   Unaffected by any change in zoning or land use;

   E.   Assurance of adequate maintenance;

   F.   Enforceable by the town by appropriate legal action; and

   G.   That if maintenance or preservation of common areas or lots no
longer complies with the provision of the association's document, the
town shall take all necessary action to assure compliance and assess the
association all costs incurred by the town for such purposes, including
reasonable attorney fees. (1997 Code §17.36.110)

ARTICLE C. MOBILE HOME PARKS

SECTION:

11-6C-1: Office And Register Required

11-6C-2: Permit Requirements; Fees

11-6C-3: Standards

11-6C-4: Bulk Requirements

11-6C-5: Space Markers

11-6C-6: Street Design Standards

11-6C-7: Off Street Parking

11-6C-8: Utility Design Requirements

11-6C-9: Mobile Home Stands

11-6C-10: Outdoor Living Area

11-6C-11: Tenant Storage

11-6C-12: Building Requirements

11-6C-13: Street Names And Addresses

11-6C-14: Solid Waste Disposal

11-6C-15: Revocation Of Permit

11-6C-1: OFFICE AND REGISTER REQUIRED:

   A.   Park Permit And Certificate Of Occupancy Posted: Every mobile
home park shall have an office in which a copy of the park permit and
certificate of occupancy shall be posted and the park registrar shall be
kept in such office.

   B.   Register Of Occupancy: It shall be the duty of the owner to keep
a register of park occupancy which shall be current at all times and
contain the following information:

      1.   Full name and address in the park of the owner of the mobile
home or his tenant or agent;

      2.   The make, model, serial number, year and dimension of each
mobile home; and

      3.   The date of arrival and departure of each mobile home and
destination. (1997 Code §17.36.260)

11-6C-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEES:

   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to construct,
operate, maintain or alter a mobile home park in the town without first
having secured a permit from the town to do so.

   B.   Application; Required Information: Application for a mobile home
park permit shall be made in writing to the town clerk and shall contain
the following information:

      1.   The name and address of the applicant.

      2.   The name and operator of the mobile home park.

      3.   A copy of the site plan to be approved by the town board and
recorded at the county clerk and recorder's office. Mobile home parks
existing on the date of adoption of this chapter shall utilize plans
already on file with the building inspector unless changes are required.

   C.   Certification Of Taxes And Assessments Paid: No permit may be
issued for a mobile home park unless a certificate is presented that
shows all property taxes, real and personal, and all special assessments
have been paid to date.

   D.   Term Of Permit; Fees: All annual operating permits shall expire
on April 30. Application for permit renewal shall be made at least
thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date. The application for such
permit, or renewal thereof, shall be accompanied by an annual fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first twenty (20) mobile home spaces or
part thereof, and two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) for each additional
mobile home space in the existing or proposed mobile home park.

   E.   Permits Nontransferable: No mobile home park permit shall be
transferable or assignable.

   F.   Issuance: If the building inspector determines that the mobile
home park is in compliance with all provisions of this article and other
applicable regulations, he shall issue a mobile home park permit. (1997
Code §17.36.120)

11-6C-3: STANDARDS:

The standards set out in this article shall apply to all mobile home
parks which shall be subject to review and approval through the site
plan process. (1997 Code §17.36.130)

11-6C-4: BULK REQUIREMENTS:

The following are minimum requirements for all mobile home parks:

 

  ------------------- ----------- ---------------------
                      Park Site   Mobile Home Space
  Minimum area        5 acres     4,000 square feet
  Minimum lot width   100 feet    40 feet, singlewide
  ------------------- ----------- ---------------------

 

   A.   Minimum Yards:

      1.   The distance between any building or mobile home from a
property line of the park shall be twenty feet (20').

      2.   The front setback of a mobile home, exclusive of the towing
hitch, shall be fifteen feet (15') from the back of the curb on interior
streets or drives.

      3.   Side and rear spacing shall provide for a distance of twenty
feet (20') between units.

      4.   There shall be a minimum setback of eighteen feet (18')
between any service facility or mobile home park permanent building and
any mobile home. (1997 Code §17.36.140)

11-6C-5: SPACE MARKERS:

Each mobile home space shall be clearly marked on the ground by
permanent stakes, markers or other suitable means. (1997 Code
§17.36.150)

11-6C-6: STREET DESIGN STANDARDS:

All interior streets in mobile home parks shall be privately owned and
maintained by the mobile home park owner and shall be built to town
street construction standards and specifications, and also the
following:

   A.   Sidewalk width shall be four feet (4') plus a one foot (1')
gutter pan.

   B.   Cul-de-sac right of way diameter shall be eighty feet (80').

   C.   Paved walks shall be provided to each mobile home stand from the
street. (1997 Code §17.36.160)

11-6C-7: OFF STREET PARKING:

   A.   Every mobile home park space shall have one paved off street
parking space adjacent to the mobile home stand. There shall be one
additional designated parking space for each mobile home space within
one hundred feet (100') of the space for exclusive use of its occupants.

   B.   Where open space, community facilities or other amenity is
provided, provision shall be made for user parking off the street in
accordance with the provisions of this title. (1997 Code §17.36.170)

11-6C-8: UTILITY DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:

   A.   All public utilities shall be installed in accordance with the
plumbing code of the Colorado department of health, the national
electrical code and town standards.

   B.   Each mobile home shall have a separate meter for water service.
(1997 Code §17.36.180)

11-6C-9: MOBILE HOME STANDS:

   A.   The mobile home stand in the mobile home space shall be improved
to provide an adequate foundation for the placement and tie down of the
mobile home, to secure the superstructure against uplift, sliding,
rotation and overturning.

   B.   The mobile home stand shall not bear, shift or settle unevenly
under the weight of the mobile home due to frost action, inadequate
drainage, vibration or other forces acting on the superstructure.

   C.   The mobile home stand shall be provided with anchors and tie
downs such as cast in place concrete "dead men", eyelets imbedded in
concrete foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors or
other devices securing the stability of the mobile home.

   D.   Anchors and tie downs shall be placed at least at each corner of
the mobile home stand and at the midpoints of the mobile home stand, for
a total of at least six (6) tie down points, each able to sustain a
minimum tensile strength of two thousand eight hundred (2,800) pounds.

   E.   The location of each mobile home stand shall be at such
elevation, distance and angle in relation to an access street that
placement and removal of the mobile home is practical. (1997 Code
§17.36.190)

11-6C-10: OUTDOOR LIVING AREA:

   A.   An outdoor living area shall be provided on each space equal to
at least ten percent (10%) of its area; provided, that in no case shall
such area be less than three hundred (300) square feet or required to be
more than five hundred (500) square feet.

   B.   Such outdoor living area shall be properly drained, located for
convenience and optimum use and walled, fenced or planted to provide
reasonable privacy. Within such area, a section suitably surfaced shall
be provided, not less than one hundred (100) square feet in area or ten
feet (10') in width. This section may be covered in whole or in part by
a roof. (1997 Code §17.36.200)

11-6C-11: TENANT STORAGE:

   A.   A separate uniform tenant storage structure shall be provided
for each space, located on each space or in compounds not more than one
hundred feet (100') from each mobile home stand serving no more than
four (4) mobile homes.

   B.   There shall be a minimum of two hundred twenty four (224) cubic
feet of storage area provided for each mobile home space.

   C.   Design and location shall enhance the appearance of the park and
the structure shall be constructed of suitable weather resistant
materials. (1997 Code §17.36.210)

11-6C-12: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:

   A.   HUD Standards Not Required: Mobile homes in mobile home parks
shall not be required to meet department of housing and urban
development standards.

   B.   Skirting: All mobile homes shall be skirted, but such skirting
shall not attach the mobile home permanently to the ground, provide a
harborage for rodents or create a fire hazard.

   C.   Additions:

      1.   Additions to increase the floor areas of mobile homes within
the mobile home park shall be permitted except that such additional
room, including cabanas, patios or porches, does not exceed twenty
percent (20%) of the square foot area of the mobile home.

      2.   All additions shall comply with minimum yard requirements,
and a building permit shall be required in advance for any such
addition.

   D.   Inspection; Certificate Of Occupancy: Prior to occupancy, the
building inspector shall inspect each mobile home to determine
compliance with this article. No occupancy shall be permitted or
certificate of occupancy issued until the inspection and all connections
to public utilities have been made. Fees for this inspection shall be
established by the town board from time to time. (1997 Code §17.36.220)

11-6C-13: STREET NAMES AND ADDRESSES:

All mobile home park streets shall be named on the plan submitted by the
owner for approval. Each space shall be numerically designated for
address and mail purposes and signs furnished and installed by mobile
home owner. (1997 Code §17.36.230)

11-6C-14: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL:

   A.   Compliance With Town, State Or Federal Regulations: The owner of
any mobile home park shall be responsible for the promulgation and
enforcement of rules and regulations governing solid waste storage and
handling that meet or exceed town, state or federal regulations.

   B.   Container Requirements: The owner shall provide containers for
the storage of solid wastes awaiting collection. Containers are to be
sized to completely contain all solid wastes that are generated on the
premises. Such containers shall conform to all applicable town
specifications of regulations including size, sanitary conditions,
physical conditions, and container closure.

   C.   Container Location; Collection:

      1.   The owner shall provide an adequate location or locations for
such containers which shall facilitate the collection of solid wastes
from the park. Such locations shall be accessible to collection vehicles
and to occupants of the park.

      2.   The collection vehicle should be able to remain on a public
street or alley and be able to stop directly adjacent to the container
location. If private drives must be used, they should provide sufficient
space around parked vehicles for easy operation of the collection
vehicle without backing the vehicle.

   D.   Sanitary Condition Of Collection Points: The collection points,
including the containers located therein, shall be kept in a neat and
sanitary condition by the owner or his agent. (1997 Code §17.36.240)

11-6C-15: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:

   A.   Owner Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the
owner to ensure that all requirements of this article are met and
maintained.

   B.   Notice Of Violation: When it appears to the building inspector,
the chief of the fire department, or the chief of the police department
that any person holding a license under this article has violated any of
the provisions of this article or any health or safety regulation of the
town, a written notice shall be served upon such owner in person or by
certified mail specifying the violation of this article or any health or
safety regulation and requiring him to appear before the town board at a
time specified therein not less than ten (10) days after such service,
and to show cause why such license should not be suspended or revoked.
At such time, the owner and the fire, police and building inspector of
the town may produce such evidence as may be relevant to determine
whether the violation contained in the charge has been committed. If the
town board finds that such violation has been committed, the board shall
also advise the owner and the owner shall be permitted to continue
operation, but if the town board finds from the evidence that such
violation has been committed, the board shall so advise the owner and
may suspend or revoke the license.

   C.   Operation Without License Prohibited: It is unlawful for any
person whose license has been revoked or suspended to operate, continue
to operate or offer to operate any mobile home park after the date of
such revocation or during the term of suspension, as the case may be.
(1997 Code §17.36.250)

ARTICLE D. SITE PLAN

SECTION:

11-6D-1: Plan Contents

11-6D-2: Site Plan Requirements

11-6D-3: Site Plan Review Procedure

11-6D-1: PLAN CONTENTS:

Before any permit is issued for construction of a mobile home
development, a site plan and required documentation shall be submitted
to and approved by the town board. The plan shall be prepared by a
registered land surveyor or registered professional engineer and shall
be drawn to a scale of no less than one inch equals one hundred feet
(1"=100') and shall include, as a minimum, the following:

   A.   North arrow, date of plan, engineer's scale and legend.

   B.   Boundaries and area of mobile home development, legal
description of property, and total spaces in the area.

   C.   Names of adjacent public streets, roads, and existing zoning of
adjacent property.

   D.   Name and address of fee owner and record owner of the proposed
mobile home development; and name, address and phone number of firm or
individual responsible for site plan.

   E.   Topography, showing existing and proposed grades, at one foot
(1') intervals.

   F.   All required setback lines, shown as dashed lines.

   G.   Landscaping and buffer areas.

   H.   Location and dimensions of all mobile home lots or spaces and a
schedule of units per acre.

   I.   Lot and block numbering system of lots or numbering system for
each mobile home space.

   J.   Location and dimension of existing and proposed rights of way,
easements and proposed street names.

   K.   Location and plan of any buildings to be constructed in the
mobile home development.

   L.   Surface drainage and storm sewer plan.

   M.   Paving and draining plans showing the directions and calculated
quantities of runoff. Street and drainage construction shall be to the
specifications of the town as to location and grade. Drainage
improvements shall be sufficient to contain drainage flows.

   N.   Plans and profiles of all roads and main storm drainage and
sanitary sewer facilities.

   O.   Location and dimension of trash disposal areas or enclosures.

   P.   Location and size of proposed water and sewer service
connections.

   Q.   Either proposed homeowners' association and restrictive
covenants for a mobile home subdivision or tenant rules and regulations
and plans for operation of mobile home park. (1997 Code §17.36.270)

11-6D-2: SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:

   A.   Traffic Flow: Principal vehicular points shall be designed to
encourage smooth traffic flow with controlled turning movements and
minimum hazards to vehicular or pedestrian traffic. In general, minor
streets shall not be connected with the streets outside the district in
such a way as to encourage the use of such minor streets by substantial
amounts of through traffic. No site within the park shall have direct
vehicular access to a street bordering the development. There shall be
at least two (2) connections to the public street system.

   B.   Access For Pedestrians And Cyclists: Access for pedestrians and
cyclists to and from the mobile home development shall be by safe and
convenient routes. Such ways need not be adjacent or limited to the
vicinity of vehicular access points. Where there are crossings of such
ways and vehicular routes at the perimeters of mobile home developments,
such crossings shall be safely located, marked and controlled, and where
such ways are exposed to substantial vehicular traffic, safeguards may
be required to prevent crossings except at designated points. Bicycle
paths, if provided, shall be related to the pedestrian way system that
street crossings are combined.

   C.   Buffers And Screening:

      1.   Where mobile home developments adjoin public streets located
along exterior boundaries, a landscaped buffer at least ten feet (10')
wide shall satisfy open space requirements for individual dwellings, but
shall not contain carports, recreational shelters, storage structures,
or any other structures generally prohibited in yards adjacent to
streets in residential districts. No direct vehicular access to
individual lots shall be permitted through such yards, and no group
parking facilities or active recreation areas shall be allowed therein.

      2.   Where mobile home developments are so located that one or
more boundaries adjoin neighboring residential districts without an
intervening street, alley or other permanent open space at least twenty
feet (20') in width, a buffer at least ten feet (10') wide shall be
provided.

      3.   Along the perimeter of mobile home developments, walls or
vegetative screening shall be provided where needed to protect residents
from undesirable views, lighting, noise or other off site influences, or
to separate occupants of adjoining residential districts from the
potentially inconsistent land use characteristics of mobile home parks
and residential districts. In particular, extensive off street parking
areas and service areas for loading and unloading of other than
passenger vehicles, and storage and collection of trash and garbage,
shall be screened.

   D.   Lighting: In mobile home parks only, adequate light shall be
provided to illuminate streets, driveways and walkways for the safe
movement of vehicles and pedestrians at night. (1997 Code §17.36.280)

11-6D-3: SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE:

   A.   Mobile Home Development:

      1.   Plan Submission; Fee: The site plan of the proposed mobile
home development shall be submitted in six (6) copies to the building
official. The fee to be paid at submittal shall be determined by the
town board by resolution from time to time.

      2.   Decision Of Town Board: The town board may receive the site
plan at a regular meeting after it determines that the site plan is
complete. The town board shall approve, modify and approve, or
disapprove the site plan within sixty five (65) days after date of
receipt of the site plan.

      3.   Site Plan Binding: The site plan as approved by the town
board shall be binding and shall not be changed during the construction
of the mobile home development. Substantial changes from an approved
plan shall be approved by the town board.

   B.   Mobile Home Subdivision: In the case of a mobile home
subdivision, the requirements of the site plan and site plan approval
may be incorporated into any required plat and considered as one
document. (1997 Code §17.36.290)

CHAPTER 7
TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS AND PUBLIC CAMPGROUNDS

ARTICLE A. TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS

SECTION:

11-7A-1: Definitions

11-7A-2: Right Of Entry

11-7A-3: Licensing Requirements; Fees

11-7A-4: Parking Travel Trailers And Motor Homes

11-7A-5: General Park Requirements

11-7A-1: DEFINITIONS:

For the purpose of this article, the following terms or words shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, unless a different
meaning appears from the context.

 

  ------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  TRAILER PARK:      An area clearly defined and separate from a mobile home park area, with individual parking lots, which may or may not have facilities for the temporary hook-up of electrical and plumbing outlets.
  TRAVEL TRAILERS:   A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation use, and equipped for the road. It may be self-contained, with bath and toilet facilities, or classified as a dependent type, without bath and toilet facilities. Any regulations applying to travel trailers will also apply to campers mounted on a truck chassis, tents or tent type trailers. (Ord. 563, 12-9-2019)
  ------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

11-7A-2: RIGHT OF ENTRY:

Right Of Entry; Inspection: The building inspector or his duly
authorized representative shall have the right and be empowered to enter
any premises on which any mobile home or travel trailer is located, or
is about to be located, and to inspect the same and all accommodations
connected therewith at reasonable times. (1997 Code § 17.36.330; amd.
2016 Code; Ord. 563, 12-9-2019).

11-7A-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:

   A.   License Required; Term; Certificate Of Occupancy:

      1.   It is unlawful for any person to establish, operate or
maintain or permit to be established, operated or maintained upon any
property owned or controlled by such person, a travel trailer park in
the town, without having first secured a license from the town board to
do so.

      2.   Prior to issuance of the initial license for a travel trailer
park, the Town shall determine that the applicant has complied with the
provisions of this article and this title.

      3.   The certificate of occupancy shall be attached to the
register of such park and a copy shall be maintained on file in the
office of the town clerk.

      4.   All licenses shall expire on April 30. Application for
license renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days prior to
expiration.

   B.   Application for License; Fees:

      1.   The application for such license, or the renewal thereof,
shall be filed with the Town Clerk and shall be accompanied by an annual
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first twenty (20) travel trailer
spaces, or part thereof, and two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) for each
additional travel trailer space in the existing or proposed travel
trailer park. The cost of any license having less than six (6) months to
run before the expiration date, as herein provided, shall be reduced by
fifty percent (50%).

      2.   The application for a license, or a renewal thereof, shall be
made on forms furnished by the town clerk and shall include the name,
address and signature of the owner in fee of the tract; name, address,
and signature of applicant, if other than owner; legal description of
the premises upon which the travel trailer park is, or will be, located;
and a site plan illustrating the proposed layout of the travel trailer
park.

   C.   Plan Approval: No license may be issued for a travel trailer
park unless the plans for such park have been approved according to the
requirements of this title.

   D.   Proof Of Payment Of Taxes And Assessments: No license may be
issued for a travel trailer park unless a certificate is presented that
shows that property taxes, real and personal, and all special
assessments have been paid to date.

   E.   License Nontransferable: No license issued for a travel trailer
park shall be transferable or assignable.

   F.   Responsibilities Of Park Owner: The owner of a travel trailer
park shall be, and at all times remain, responsible for all utilities
and buildings, thereon.

   G.   Special Conditions: The Board of Trustees may establish such
additional terms and conditions for licenses issued under this Section
11-7A-3 as the Board of Trustees determines necessary and proper on a
case by case basis.

   H.   Revocation Of License: A license issued to a travel trailer park
may be revoked in accordance with the provisions of section 11-6C-15 of
this title. (Ord. 563, 12-9-2019)

11-7A-4: PARKING TRAVEL TRAILERS AND MOTOR HOMES:

No travel trailer, motor home, camper coach, camper trailer, trailer
coach or the like, whether self-propelled or without motive power,
either attached to or detached from the towing vehicle, shall park or be
parked within the town, except in a licensed and approved travel trailer
park as specified by this article, or upon any alley or public ground
within the town; nor shall the same be parked on any street or streets
within the town for a period longer than five (5) days; provided,
however, this section shall not be construed to prohibit the parking of
uninhabited, unused travel trailers, motor homes, or the like, upon
private property for the purpose of storage or sale when done so in
compliance with all other applicable provisions of this article. (Ord.
563, 12-9-2019)

11-7A-5: GENERAL PARK REQUIREMENTS:

   A.   Service Building:

      1.   Travel trailer parks which accommodate Dependent Travel
Trailers, shall provide a service building containing separate showers
and sanitary facilities within two hundred feet (200') of any travel
trailer parking space.

      2.   A "Dependent Travel Trailer" is a travel trailer without bath
and toilet facilities.

      3.   The service building shall be constructed to the requirements
of the international building code as adopted by the town, and
requirements of the Colorado department of health.

   B.   Utility Hookups; Disposal Of Human Excrement: In travel trailer
parks established on or after December 9, 2019, each travel trailer
space shall provide a utility hookup, including electricity, water and
sewer, for each travel trailer. No toilet, washing or bathing facility
within the travel trailer shall be used unless it is connected with the
town sanitary sewer or is a self-contained unit. No human excrement,
wash water, garbage or trash shall be deposited or thrown on the ground.

   C.   Size Of Individual Spaces: The site of individual spaces for
parking of travel trailers shall be a minimum size of twenty feet by
sixty feet (20' x 60').

   D.   Maintenance Of Service Buildings And Grounds: All service
buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained in a clean,
sightly condition and kept free of any condition that will menace the
health of any occupant or the public, or constitute a nuisance or fire
hazard.

   E.   Mobile Home Used As Caretaker Office Or Residence: One mobile
home may be placed in a travel trailer park and occupied as a residence
or office by the caretaker or owner of the park. Such mobile home shall
comply with the provisions of this article.

   F.   Solid Waste Storage And Handling: The owner of any travel
trailer park shall be responsible for the promulgation and enforcement
of rules and regulations governing solid waste storage and handling that
will meet or exceed town, state and federal regulations.

      1.   The owner shall provide containers for storage of solid
wastes awaiting collection. Containers are to be sized to completely
contain all solid wastes that are generated on the park. Such containers
must conform to all applicable town specifications or regulations
including, but not limited to, size, sanitary conditions, physical
conditions and container closure.

      2.   The owner shall provide an adequate location or locations for
such containers which shall facilitate the collection of solid wastes
from the premises. Such locations shall be accessible to collection
crews and occupants of the premises. The collection vehicle should be
able to remain on a public street or alley and to stop directly adjacent
to the container location. If private drives must be used, they should
provide sufficient space around parked vehicles for each operation of
the collection vehicle without backing the vehicle.

      3.   The collection points, including the containers located
therein, shall be kept in a neat and sanitary condition by the owner or
his agent. (Ord. 563, 12-9-2019)

ARTICLE B. PUBLIC CAMPGROUNDS

SECTION:

11-7B-1: Definitions

11-7B-2: Length Of Stay

11-7B-3: Charges

11-7B-4: Camping Spaces

11-7B-5: Litter

11-7B-6: Fires

11-7B-7: Violations; Penalties

11-7B-1: DEFINITIONS:

As used in this article, the following definitions shall apply:

DAY: A twenty four (24) hour period, or any part thereof.

PUBLIC CAMPGROUND: A public area maintained, operated and controlled by
the town to provide for the overnight camping of tourists and other
travelers, designed primarily to provide space for travel trailers and
tents. (1997 Code §17.36.340)

11-7B-2: LENGTH OF STAY:

It is unlawful for any person to occupy any space in any public
campground for longer than seven (7) consecutive days. A person shall be
deemed to have occupied space within the campground for one full day if
he has occupied space in the campground for any part of a day. However,
for a break to occur in the occupation of a space, a person must have
removed himself and his tent, trailer or other shelter or accommodations
for one full day. (1997 Code §17.36.350)

11-7B-3: CHARGES:

   A.   The first twenty four (24) hours of occupancy shall be free.
(1997 Code §17.36.360)

   B.   Thereafter, a charge established by board of trustees by
resolution from time to time shall be levied and paid in advance for
occupancy of each space for each day or part thereof. (1997 Code
§17.36.360; amd. 2016 Code)

11-7B-4: CAMPING SPACES:

   A.   All public campgrounds shall be divided into spaces which shall
be appropriately marked and to be readily apparent.

   B.   All vehicles, travel trailers and tents shall be placed or
parked in such spaces and no other place in the public campgrounds.
(1997 Code §17.36.370)

11-7B-5: LITTER:

It is unlawful for any person to place, throw or in any other manner
deposit upon any public campground any waste, garbage, refuse, excrement
or litter of any nature whatsoever, and all persons shall keep the area
around their vehicle and within the space occupied by them free from all
debris and litter of any nature. (1997 Code §17.36.380)

11-7B-6: FIRES:

It is unlawful for any persons to build any fires on any public
campgrounds except in places specifically provided therefor. (1997 Code
§17.36.390)

11-7B-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:

   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who violates any provision of this
article shall be subject to a penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of
this code. (1997 Code §17.36.400; amd. 2016 Code)

   B.   Each Day Separate Violation: Each day any person occupies a
space within a public campground beyond seven (7) consecutive days, as
provided in this article, shall be deemed a separate violation of this
article.

   C.   Removal Of Violators From Campground: In addition to any other
remedies in this article, the town, through its police department, may
remove any violators from the public campgrounds and exclude them
therefrom. If the violators, upon request, refuse to remove themselves
and their vehicles and belongings, the vehicles and belongings may be
removed from the public campground, impounded, and the cost therefor
collected from the violator's costs prior to the return of such items.
(1997 Code §17.36.400)

TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL

CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION

SECTION:

12-1-1: Statutory Authorization

12-1-2: Findings Of Fact

12-1-3: Statement Of Purpose

12-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses

12-1-5: Definitions

12-1-6: Lands To Which Chapter Applies

12-1-7: Basis For Establishing Special Flood Hazard Areas

12-1-8: Compliance Required

12-1-9: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions

12-1-10: Interpretation

12-1-11: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability

12-1-12: Floodplain Administrator

12-1-13: Floodplain Development Permit

12-1-14: Variance Procedures

12-1-15: General Standards For Flood Hazard Reduction

12-1-16: Specific Standards For Flood Hazard Reduction

12-1-17: Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)

12-1-18: Floodways

12-1-19: Alteration Of Watercourse

12-1-20: Properties Removed From Floodplain By Fill

12-1-21: Subdivision Proposals

12-1-22: Critical Facilities

12-1-23: Penalties For Noncompliance

12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:

The legislature of the state of Colorado has, in Colorado Revised
Statutes title 29, article 20, delegated the responsibility of local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood
losses. Therefore, the board of trustees for the town does hereby adopt
the floodplain management regulations set out in this chapter. (Ord.
508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:

   A.   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic
inundation, which can result in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all
of which adversely affect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public.

   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are
inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood
damage. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:

It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:

   A.   Protect human life and health;

   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;

   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;

   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;

   E.   Minimize damage to critical facilities, infrastructure, and
other public facilities such as water, sewer, and gas mains; electric
and communications stations; and streets and bridges located in
floodplains;

   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize
future flood blight areas; and

   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is
located in a flood hazard area. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

 

12-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:

In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:

   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety,
or property in times of flood or that cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities;

   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of
initial construction;

   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation
of floodwaters;

   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage;

   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards
to other lands. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-5: DEFINITIONS:

Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application:

ADDITION: Any activity that expands the enclosed footprint or increases
the square footage of an existing structure.

ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: A fan shaped sediment deposit formed by a stream
that flows from a steep mountain valley or gorge onto a plain or the
junction of a tributary stream with the main stream. Alluvial fans
contain active stream channels and boulder bars, and recently abandoned
channels. Alluvial fans are predominantly formed by alluvial deposits
and are modified by infrequent sheet flood, channel avulsions and other
stream processes.

AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated zone AO or AH on a community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or
greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three
feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path
of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident.
Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.

BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation shown on a FEMA flood
insurance rate map for zones AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30,
AR/AH, AR/AO, V1-V30, and VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a one percent (1%) chance of equaling or
exceeding that level in any given year.

BASEMENT: Any area of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.

CHANNEL: The physical confine of stream or waterway consisting of a bed
and stream banks, existing in a variety of geometries.

CHANNELIZATION: The artificial creation, enlargement or realignment of a
stream channel.

CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (CFR): The codification of the general and
permanent rules published in the federal register by the executive
departments and agencies of the federal government. It is divided into
fifty (50) titles that represent broad areas subject to federal
regulation.

COMMUNITY: Any political subdivision in the state of Colorado that has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations through
zoning, including, but not limited to, cities, towns, unincorporated
areas in the counties, Indian tribes and drainage and flood control
districts.

CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR):   FEMA's comment on a
proposed project, which does not revise an effective floodplain map,
that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic
characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification
of the existing regulatory floodplain.

CRITICAL FACILITY: A structure or related infrastructure, but not the
land on which it is situated, as specified in section 12-1-22 of this
chapter, that if flooded may result in significant hazards to public
health and safety or interrupt essential services and operations for the
community at any time before, during and after a flood. See section
12-1-22 of this chapter.

DFIRM DATABASE: Database (usually spreadsheets containing data and
analyses that accompany DFIRMs). The FEMA mapping specifications and
guidelines outline requirements for the development and maintenance of
DFIRM databases.

DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or
storage of equipment or materials.

DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM):   FEMA digital floodplain map.
These digital maps serve as "regulatory floodplain maps" for insurance
and floodplain management purposes.

ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a
building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the
top of the elevated floor above the ground level by means of pilings,
columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of the
water; and b) adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural
integrity of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the
base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and
D, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of
fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters.

EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including,
at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads)
is completed before the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.

EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets,
and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).

FEMA: Federal emergency management agency, the agency responsible for
administering the national flood insurance program.

FEDERAL REGISTER: The official daily publication for rules, proposed
rules, and notices of federal agencies and organizations, as well as
executive orders and other presidential documents.

500-YEAR FLOOD: A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2
percent chance of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2
percent chance annual flood). The term does not imply that the flood
will necessarily happen once every five hundred (500) years.

500-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: The area of land susceptible to being inundated as
a result of the occurrence of a 500-year flood.

FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE: A physical structure designed and built
expressly or partially for the purpose of reducing, redirecting, or
guiding flood flows along a particular waterway. These specialized flood
modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.

FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on
which the federal emergency management agency has delineated both the
special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community.

FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the federal
emergency management agency. The report contains the flood insurance
rate map as well as flood profiles for studied flooding sources that can
be used to determine base flood elevations for some areas.

FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:

   A.   The overflow of water from channels and reservoir spillways;

   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source; or

   C.   Mudslides or mudflows that occur from excess surface water that
is combined with mud or other debris that is sufficiently fluid so as to
flow over the surface of normally dry land areas (such as earth carried
by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current).

FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The community official designated by title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations.

FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit required before construction or
development begins within any special flood hazard area (SFHA). If FEMA
has not defined the SFHA within a community, the community shall require
permits for all proposed construction or other development in the
community including the placement of manufactured homes, so that it may
determine whether such construction or other development is proposed
within flood prone areas. Permits are required to ensure that proposed
development projects meet the requirements of the NFIP and this chapter.

FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not
limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and
floodplain management regulations.

FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and
erosion control ordinance) and other applications of police power. The
term describes such state or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.

FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being
inundated as the result of a flood, including the area of land over
which floodwater would flow from the spillway of a reservoir.

FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and/or nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or
eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water
and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.

FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other
watercourse and adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to
discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water
surface elevation more than a designated height. The Colorado statewide
standard for the designated height to be used for all newly studied
reaches shall be one-half foot (1/2') (6 inches). Letters of map
revision to existing floodway delineations may continue to use the
floodway criteria in place at the time of the existing floodway
delineation.

FREEBOARD: The vertical distance in feet above a predicted water surface
elevation intended to provide a margin of safety to compensate for
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood such as debris blockage of
bridge openings and the increased runoff due to urbanization of the
watershed.

FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.
The term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are
necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and
shipbuilding and ship repair facilities, but does not include long term
storage or related manufacturing facilities.

HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.

HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:

   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places
(a listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements
for individual listing on the national register;

   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the
interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the
secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;

   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by
the secretary of interior; or

   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:

      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary
of the interior; or

      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without
approved programs.

LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR):   FEMA's official revision of an
effective flood insurance rate map (FIRM), or flood boundary and
floodway map (FBFM), or both. LOMRs are generally based on the
implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or
hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the
modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective base
flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area (SFHA).

LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F):   FEMA's modification of
the special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) based on the placement of fill outside the existing
regulatory floodway.

LEVEE: A manmade embankment, usually earthen, designed and constructed
in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding. For a levee structure to be reflected on the FEMA FIRMs as
providing flood protection, the levee structure must meet the
requirements set forth in 44 CFR 65.10.

LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices,
which are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering
practices.

LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). Any floor used for living purposes which includes working,
storage, sleeping, cooking and eating, or recreation or any combination
thereof. This includes any floor that could be converted to such a use
such as a basement or crawl space. The lowest floor is a determinate for
the flood insurance premium for a building, home or business. An
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement
area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the
national flood insurance program regulations.

MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.
The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".

MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or
sale.

MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET (MSDS): A form with data regarding the
properties of a particular substance. An important component of product
stewardship and workplace safety, it is intended to provide workers and
emergency personnel with procedures for handling or working with that
substance in a safe manner, and includes information such as physical
data (melting point, boiling point, flashpoint, etc.), toxicity, health
effects, first aid, reactivity, storage, disposal, protective equipment,
and spill handling procedures.

MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program,
the North American vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to
which base flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate
map are referenced.

NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP):   FEMA's program of flood
insurance coverage and floodplain management administered in conjunction
with the Robert T. Stafford relief and emergency assistance act. The
NFIP has applicable federal regulations promulgated in title 44 of the
code of federal regulations. The U.S. congress established the NFIP in
1968 with the passage of the national flood insurance act of 1968.

NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and
either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed
on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.

NO RISE CERTIFICATION: A record of the results of an engineering
analysis conducted to determine whether a project will increase flood
heights in a floodway. A no rise certification must be supported by
technical data and signed by a registered Colorado professional
engineer. The supporting technical data should be based on the standard
step backwater computer model used to develop the 100-year floodway
shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or flood boundary and
floodway map (FBFM).

100-YEAR FLOOD: A flood having a recurrence interval that has a one
percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded during any given year
(1 percent annual chance flood). The terms "one hundred year flood" and
"one percent chance flood" are synonymous with the term "100-year
flood". The term does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen
once every one hundred (100) years.

100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: The area of land susceptible to being inundated as
a result of the occurrence of a 100-year flood.

PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR):   FEMA's action whereby one or more map
panels are physically revised and republished. A PMR is used to change
flood risk zones, floodplain and/or floodway delineations, flood
elevations, and/or planimetric features.

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:

   A.   Built on a single chassis;

   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the
largest horizontal projections;

   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and

   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal
use.

SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given
year, i.e., the 100-year floodplain.

START OF CONSTRUCTION: The date the building permit was issued,
including substantial improvements, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days
of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of
slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of
a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not
include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied
as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration
of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building.

STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid
storage tank, which is principally above ground, as well as a
manufactured home.

SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged
condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value
of the structure just prior to when the damage occurred.

SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before "start
of construction" of the improvement. The value of the structure shall be
determined by the local jurisdiction having land use authority in the
area of interest. This includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:

   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary conditions; or

   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure"; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure".

THRESHOLD PLANNING QUANTITY (TPQ): A quantity designated for each
chemical on the list of extremely hazardous substances that triggers
notification by facilities to the state that such facilities are subject
to emergency planning requirements.

VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this
chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
A variance, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner
otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (For full requirements, see
section 60.6 of the national flood insurance program regulations.)

VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A
structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other
certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in section
60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) of the
national flood insurance program regulations is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.

WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American
vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of
coastal or riverine areas. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-6: LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES:

This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas and areas
removed from the floodplain by the issuance of a FEMA letter of map
revision based on fill (LOMR-F) within the jurisdiction of Akron,
Colorado. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-7: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:

The special flood hazard areas identified by the federal emergency
management agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, “The
Flood Insurance Study for Washington County, Colorado and Incorporated
Areas,” dated May 18, 2021, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps
and/or flood boundary-floodway maps (FIRM and/or FBFM) and any revisions
thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this section. These special flood hazard areas identified by the flood
insurance study and attendant mapping are the minimum area of
applicability of this section and may be supplemented by studies
designated and approved by the board of trustees for the town of Akron.
The floodplain administrator shall keep a copy of the flood insurance
study (FIS), DFIRMs, FIRMs and/or FBFMs on file and available for public
inspection. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013; amd. Ord. 573, 4-5-2021)

12-1-8: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:

No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its
use changed within the special flood hazard area without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Nothing
herein shall prevent the board of trustees from taking such lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. These
regulations meet the minimum requirements as set forth by the Colorado
water conservation board and the national flood insurance program. (Ord.
508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-9: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:

This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
and another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict
or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall
prevail. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-10: INTERPRETATION:

In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:

   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;

   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and

   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-11: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:

   A.   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific
and engineering considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can
and will occur and flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural
causes.

   B.   This chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood
hazard area or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on
the part of the community or any official or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-12: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:

   A.   Designation: The town clerk is hereby appointed as floodplain
administrator to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national flood
insurance program regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.

   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:

      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records
pertaining to the provisions of this chapter, including the actual
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new or substantially improved structures and any
floodproofing certificate required by subsection 12-1-13B of this
chapter.

      2.   Review, approve, or deny all applications for floodplain
development permits required by adoption of this chapter.

      3.   Review floodplain development permit applications to
determine whether a proposed building site, including the placement of
manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding.

      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies (including section 404 of the federal water
pollution control act amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior
approval is required.

      5.   Inspect all development at appropriate times during the
period of construction to ensure compliance with all provisions of this
chapter, including proper elevation of the structure.

      6.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
the boundaries of the special flood hazard area (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual
field conditions), the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation.

      7.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in
accordance with section 12-1-7 of this chapter, the floodplain
administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation data and floodway data available from a federal, state, or
other source, in order to administer the provisions of sections 12-1-15
through 12-1-22 of this chapter.

8. For waterways with base flood elevations for which a regulatory
floodway has not been designated, no new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be permitted
within zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will
not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than
one-half foot (1/2') at any point within the community.

9. Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12 of the
national flood insurance program regulations, a community may approve
certain development in zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM
which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more
than one-half foot (1/2'); provided, that the community first applies
for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA (conditional letter of map
revision), fulfills the requirements for such revisions as established
under the provisions of section 65.12 and receives FEMA approval.

      10.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the
state coordinating agency, which is the Colorado water conservation
board, prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of such notification to FEMA.

      11.   Ensure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered
or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained. (Ord. 508,
4-1-2013)

12-1-13: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:

   A.   Permit Required: A floodplain development permit shall be
required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.

   B.   Application; Required Information: Application for a floodplain
development permit shall be presented to the floodplain administrator on
forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to, plans
in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed
structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to special flood hazard area.

      1.   Additionally, the following information is required:

         a.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all new and substantially improved
structures.

         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed.

         c.   A certificate from a registered Colorado professional
engineer or architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure
shall meet the floodproofing criteria of subsection 12-1-16B of this
chapter.

         d.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or
natural drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed
development.

         e.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance
with subsection 12-1-12B of this chapter.

      2.   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:

         a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage.

         b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its
contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual
owner.

         c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to
the injury of others.

         d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development.

         e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.

         f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and
after flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and
bridges, and public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems.

         g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.

         h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location,
where applicable.

         i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use.

         j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive
plan for that area. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-14: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:

   A.   The appeal board, as established by the community, shall hear
and render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.

   B.   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal
only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision,
or determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement
or administration of this chapter.

   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal
board may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.

   D.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all
actions involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal
emergency management agency upon request.

   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation
or restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic
places or the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the
procedures set forth in the remainder of this chapter.

F. Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood level, provided the relevant factors in
subsection 12-1-13B of this chapter have been fully considered. As the
lot size increases beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.

   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of this chapter as stated in section 12-1-3 of this chapter.

   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.

   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation
as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure.

   J.   Prerequisites for granting variances:

      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to
afford relief.

      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:

         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;

         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and

         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.

      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the
lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost
of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.

   K.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the
conduct of a functionally dependent use; provided, that:

      1.   The criteria outlined in subsections A through I of this
section are met; and

      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-15: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:

In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:

   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.

   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.

   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.

   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed
and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.

   E.   All manufactured homes shall be installed using methods and
practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this
requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to
ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and
local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.

   F.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.

   G.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters.

   H.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord.
508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-16: SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:

In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in: a) section 12-1-7; b) subsection
12-1-12B7; or c) section 12-1-21 of this chapter, the following
provisions are required:

   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities (including
ductwork), elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood elevation.
Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be certified by a registered Colorado
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor. Such certification
shall be submitted to the floodplain administrator.

   B.   Nonresidential Construction:

      1.   With the exception of critical facilities, outlined in
section 12-1-22 of this chapter, new construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential
structure shall either have the lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork), elevated to
one foot (1') above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that at one foot (1')
above the base flood elevation the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.

      2.   A registered Colorado professional engineer or architect
shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans
for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as
outlined in this subsection. Such certification shall be maintained by
the floodplain administrator, as proposed in subsection 12-1-13B of this
chapter.

   C.   Enclosures:

      1.   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.

      2.   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered Colorado professional engineer or architect or meet or
exceed the following minimum criteria:

         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding shall be provided.

         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one
foot (1') above grade.

         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters.

   D.   Manufactured Homes:

      1.   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on
sites: a) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; b) in a
new manufactured home park or subdivision; c) in an expansion to an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision; or d) in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision on which manufactured home has
incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured
home, electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork), are
elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood elevation and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.

      2.   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved on
sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones
A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of subsection D1 of this section, shall be elevated so that
either:

         a.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other
service facilities (including ductwork), are one foot (1') above the
base flood elevation; or

         b.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced
piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that
are no less than thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.

   E.   Recreational Vehicles:

      1.   All recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones A1-30,
AH, and AE on the community's FIRM either:

         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days;

         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or

         c.   Meet the permit requirements of subsection 12-1-13B of
this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
"manufactured homes" in subsection D of this section.

      2.   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.

   F.   Prior Approved Activities: Any activity for which a floodplain
development permit was issued by the town or a CLOMR was issued by FEMA
prior to the effective date hereof may be completed according to the
standards in place at the time of the permit or CLOMR issuance and will
not be considered in violation of this chapter if it meets such
standards. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-17: AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES):

Located within the special flood hazard area established in section
12-1-7 of this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding. These
areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of
one foot (1') to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does
not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding
or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions apply:

   A.   Residential Construction: All new construction and substantial
improvements of residential structures must have the lowest floor
(including basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities (including
ductwork), elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least one foot
(1') above the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM
(at least 3 feet if no depth number is specified). Upon completion of
the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement,
shall be certified by a registered Colorado professional engineer,
architect, or land surveyor. Such certification shall be submitted to
the floodplain administrator.

   B.   Nonresidential Construction:

      1.   With the exception of critical facilities, outlined in
section 12-1-22 of this chapter, all new construction and substantial
improvements of nonresidential structures must have the lowest floor
(including basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities (including
ductwork), elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least one foot
(1') above the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM
(at least 3 feet if no depth number is specified), or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that the
structure is watertight to at least one foot (1') above the base flood
level with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads of effects of buoyancy. A registered
Colorado professional engineer or architect shall submit a certification
to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this section, as
proposed in subsection 12-1-13B of this chapter, are satisfied.

      2.   Within zones AH or AO, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes are required to guide floodwaters around and away
from proposed structures. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-18: FLOODWAYS:

Floodways are administrative limits and tools used to regulate existing
and future floodplain development. The state of Colorado has adopted
floodway standards that are more stringent than the FEMA minimum
standard (see definition of "floodway" in section 12-1-5 of this
chapter). Located within special flood hazard areas established in
section 12-1-7 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since
the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion
potential, the following provisions shall apply:

   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted
regulatory floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed by a licensed Colorado professional
engineer and in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase (requires a no
rise certification) in flood levels within the community during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.

   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of sections 12-1-15 through
12-1-22 of this chapter.

   C.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12 of the
national flood insurance regulations, a community may permit
encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result
in an increase in base flood elevations; provided, that the community
first applies for a CLOMR and floodway revision through FEMA. (Ord. 508,
4-1-2013)

12-1-19: ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSE:

For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse within a special
flood hazard area, the following standards apply:

   A.   Channelization and flow diversion projects shall appropriately
consider issues of sediment transport, erosion, deposition, and channel
migration and properly mitigate potential problems through the project
as well as upstream and downstream of any improvement activity. A
detailed analysis of sediment transport and overall channel stability
should be considered, when appropriate, to assist in determining the
most appropriate design.

   B.   Channelization and flow diversion projects shall evaluate the
residual 100-year floodplain.

   C.   Any channelization or other stream alteration activity proposed
by a project proponent must be evaluated for its impact on the
regulatory floodplain and be in compliance with all applicable federal,
state and local floodplain rules, regulations and ordinances.

   D.   Any stream alteration activity shall be designed and sealed by a
registered Colorado professional engineer or certified professional
hydrologist.

   E.   All activities within the regulatory floodplain shall meet all
applicable federal, state and municipal floodplain requirements and
regulations.

   F.   Within the regulatory floodway, stream alteration activities
shall not be constructed unless the project proponent demonstrates
through a floodway analysis and report, sealed by a registered Colorado
professional engineer, that there is not more than a 0.00 foot rise in
the proposed conditions compared to existing conditions floodway
resulting from the project, otherwise known as a no rise certification,
unless the community first applies for a CLOMR and floodway revision in
accordance with section 12-1-18 of this chapter.

   G.   Maintenance shall be required for any altered or relocated
portions of watercourses so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-20: PROPERTIES REMOVED FROM FLOODPLAIN BY FILL:

A floodplain development permit shall not be issued for the construction
of a new structure or addition to an existing structure on a property
removed from the floodplain by the issuance of a FEMA letter of map
revision based on fill (LOMR-F), unless such new structure or addition
complies with the following:

   A.   Residential Construction: The lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork) must be
elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood elevation that existed
prior to the placement of fill.

   B.   Nonresidential Construction: The lowest floor (including
basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork)
must be elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood elevation that
existed prior to the placement of fill, or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that the structure or
addition is watertight to at least one foot (1') above the base flood
level that existed prior to the placement of fill with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads or effects of buoyancy. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-21: SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:

   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall be reasonably safe from
flooding. If a subdivision or other development proposal is in a flood
prone area, the proposal shall minimize flood damage.

   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet
floodplain development permit requirements of section 12-1-13 of this
chapter, and the provisions of sections 12-1-15 through 12-1-22 of this
chapter.

   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty
(50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise
provided pursuant to section 12-1-7 or subsection 12-1-12B of this
chapter.

   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage
provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.

   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-22: CRITICAL FACILITIES:

   A.   Definition: A critical facility is a structure or related
infrastructure, but not the land on which it is situated, as specified
in rule 6 of the rules and regulations for regulatory floodplains in
Colorado, that if flooded may result in significant hazards to public
health and safety or interrupt essential services and operations for the
community at any time before, during and after a flood.

   B.   Classification Of Critical Facilities: It is the responsibility
of the board of trustees to identify and confirm that specific
structures in their community meet the following criteria:

Critical facilities are classified under the following categories: 1)
essential services; 2) hazardous materials; 3) at risk populations; and
4) vital to restoring normal services.

      1.   Essential services facilities include public safety,
emergency response, emergency medical, designated emergency shelters,
communications, public utility plant facilities, and transportation
lifelines. These facilities consist of:

         a.   Public safety (police stations, fire and rescue stations,
emergency vehicle and equipment storage, and, emergency operation
centers);

         b.   Emergency medical (hospitals, ambulance service centers,
urgent care centers having emergency treatment functions, and
nonambulatory surgical structures but excluding clinics, doctor's
offices, and nonurgent care medical structures that do not provide these
functions);

         c.   Designated emergency shelters;

         d.   Communications (main hubs for telephone, broadcasting
equipment for cable systems, satellite dish systems, cellular systems,
television, radio, and other emergency warning systems, but excluding
towers, poles, lines, cables, and conduits);

         e.   Public utility plant facilities for generation and
distribution (hubs, treatment plants, substations and pumping stations
for water, power and gas, but not including towers, poles, power lines,
buried pipelines, transmission lines, distribution lines, and service
lines); and

         f.   Air transportation lifelines-airports (municipal and
larger), helicopter pads and structures serving emergency functions, and
associated infrastructure (aviation control towers, air traffic control
centers, and emergency equipment aircraft hangars).

Specific exemptions to this category include wastewater treatment plants
(WWTP), nonpotable water treatment and distribution systems, and
hydroelectric power generating plants and related appurtenances.

Public utility plant facilities may be exempted if it can be
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the board of trustees that the
facility is an element of a redundant system for which service will not
be interrupted during a flood. At a minimum, it shall be demonstrated
that redundant facilities are available (either owned by the same
utility or available through an intergovernmental agreement or other
contract) and connected, the alternative facilities are either located
outside of the 100-year floodplain or are compliant with the provisions
of this chapter, and an operations plan is in effect that states how
redundant systems will provide service to the affected area in the event
of a flood. Evidence of ongoing redundancy shall be provided to the
board of trustees on an as needed basis upon request.

      2.   Hazardous materials facilities include facilities that
produce or store highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or
water reactive materials. These facilities may include:

         a.   Chemical and pharmaceutical plants (chemical plant,
pharmaceutical manufacturing);

         b.   Laboratories containing highly volatile, flammable,
explosive, toxic and/or water reactive materials;

         c.   Refineries;

         d.   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites; and

         e.   Aboveground gasoline or propane storage or sales centers.

Facilities shall be determined to be critical facilities if they produce
or store materials in excess of threshold limits. If the owner of a
facility is required by the occupational safety and health
administration (OSHA) to keep a material safety data sheet (MSDS) on
file for any chemicals stored or used in the workplace, and the
chemical(s) is stored in quantities equal to or greater than the
threshold planning quantity (TPQ) for that chemical, then that facility
shall be considered to be a critical facility. The TPQ for these
chemicals is: either five hundred (500) pounds or the TPQ listed
(whichever is lower) for the three hundred fifty six (356) chemicals
listed under 40 CFR section 302 (2010), also known as extremely
hazardous substances (EHS); or ten thousand (10,000) pounds for any
other chemical. This threshold is consistent with the requirements for
reportable chemicals established by the Colorado department of health
and environment. OSHA requirements for MSDS can be found in 29 CFR
section 1910 (2010). The environmental protection agency (EPA)
regulation "designation, reportable quantities, and notification", 40
CFR section 302 (2010), and OSHA regulation "occupational safety and
health standards", 29 CFR section 1910 (2010), are incorporated herein
by reference and include the regulations in existence at the time of the
promulgation of this chapter, but exclude later amendments to or
editions of the regulations.

Specific exemptions to this category include:

(1) Finished consumer products within retail centers and households
containing hazardous materials intended for household use, and
agricultural products intended for agricultural use.

(2) Buildings and other structures containing hazardous materials for
which it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the local authority
having jurisdiction by hazard assessment and certification by a
qualified professional (as determined by the local jurisdiction having
land use authority) that a release of the subject hazardous material
does not pose a major threat to the public.

(3) Pharmaceutical sales, use, storage, and distribution centers that do
not manufacture pharmaceutical products.

These exemptions shall not apply to buildings or other structures that
also function as critical facilities under another category outlined in
this chapter.

      3.   At risk population facilities include medical care,
congregate care, and schools. These facilities consist of:

         a.   Eldercare (nursing homes).

         b.   Congregate care serving twelve (12) or more individuals
(daycare and assisted living).

         c.   Public and private schools (preschools, K-12 schools,
before school and after school care serving 12 or more children).

      4.   Facilities vital to restoring normal services including
government operations. These facilities consist of:

         a.   Essential government operations (public records, courts,
jails, building permitting and inspection services, community
administration and management, maintenance and equipment centers).

         b.   Essential structures for public colleges and universities
(dormitories, offices, and classrooms only).

These facilities may be exempted if it is demonstrated to the board of
trustees that the facility is an element of a redundant system for which
service will not be interrupted during a flood. At a minimum, it shall
be demonstrated that redundant facilities are available (either owned by
the same entity or available through an intergovernmental agreement or
other contract), the alternative facilities are either located outside
of the 100-year floodplain or are compliant with this chapter, and an
operations plan is in effect that states how redundant facilities will
provide service to the affected area in the event of a flood. Evidence
of ongoing redundancy shall be provided to the board of trustees on an
as needed basis upon request.

   C.   Protection For Critical Facilities: All new and substantially
improved critical facilities and new additions to critical facilities
located within the special flood hazard area shall be regulated to a
higher standard than structures not determined to be critical
facilities. For the purposes of this chapter, protection shall include
one of the following:

      1.   Location outside the special flood hazard area; or

      2.   Elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing of the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, to
at least two feet (2') above the base flood elevation.

   D.   Ingress And Egress For New Critical Facilities: New critical
facilities shall, when practicable as determined by the board of
trustees, have continuous noninundated access (ingress and egress for
evacuation and emergency services) during a 100-year flood event. (Ord.
508, 4-1-2013)

12-1-23: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:

   A.   Compliance With Chapter: No structure or land shall hereafter be
constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered without full
compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)

   B.   Penalty Imposed: A violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punishable as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. Each and
every day a violation of the provisions of this chapter is committed,
exists, or continues shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 508,
4-1-2013; amd. 2016 Code)

   C.   Remedial Action: The town is specifically authorized to seek an
injunction, abatement, restitution, or any other remedy necessary to
prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove the violation. Any remedies provided
for herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive and shall be in
addition to any other remedies provided by law or in equity. (Ord. 508,
4-1-2013)

 
